## Discussion Of Management

Dr. Fatima C. Stanford: Essential vitamins and nutrients are absorbed in the stomach, small intestine, and large intestine, and patients who have undergone bariatric surgery are at risk for vitamin deficiencies.21 After bariatric surgery, patients receive lifelong daily vitamin supplementation, which includes a multivitamin, vitamin B12, and calcium citrate with vitamin D3, as well as vitamin D3 alone. After bariatric surgery, the most common deficiencies are in calcium, vitamin B12, vitamin D, and iron, and the least common deficiencies are in vitamin B1 (thiamine), copper, and zinc.22 Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, which this patient had undergone, was once the most common bariatric surgery, but it has been surpassed by sleeve gastrectomy.22,23 When evaluating a patient who has undergone bariatric surgery, the clinician would note the type of procedure, since the associated vitamin and micronutrient deficiencies vary according to procedure type. For example, copper deficiency occurs in 10 to 20% of patients who have undergone Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, but there is only one case report of copper deficiency occurring after sleeve gastrectomy.24 This patient had been taking vitamin D and vitamin B12 supplements, and a thiamine supplement was added after alcohol use was discovered. However, he had not been taking a daily multivitamin and was at risk for other deficiencies, such as deficiencies in vitamin C and folate. This case highlights the need for all members of the medical team to reiterate the importance of all vitamin supplementation as part of routine care after bariatric surgery.

Dr. Schmitt: My experience with this patient highlights for me the importance of routinely asking patients about their alcohol use — especially patients I have known for a long time. This patient had been sober for years but started to drink alcohol again in the context of the stress of his divorce. I could have recognized this sooner had I repeated a validated screening test, such as the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test–Concise (AUDIT-C), during follow-up visits.25 I screen all new patients using the AUDIT-C, but I do not rescreen during every follow-up visit with established patients. In patients with previous alcohol-use disorders or stressful life events, rescreening can allow recognition of problematic alcohol use, which can lead to an assessment of severity and appropriate interventions. A short intervention, administered by a caring professional, can reduce harmful drinking practices and help to identify patients with more severe alcohol-use disorder who would benefit from counseling or medication.26

After this patient was discharged from the hospital, I saw him in my office monthly for 3 months. At 3 months after discharge, he had made an excellent recovery and was maintaining sobriety. He was walking without a cane and had returned to working full-time. The orthostatic hypotension and anemia had resolved, and the hair on his arms had grown back. Unfortunately, 3 months after this outpatient visit, he had a relapse of his alcohol use, despite engaging in treatment for alcohol-use disorder. During this relapse, he fell while he was intoxicated and died from a cerebral hemorrhage.