## Falls In Patients With Nutritional Deficiencies

When the patient returned to the clinic 4 months after the initial fall, he reported falling multiple times, with injuries, and had rented a wheelchair in order to safely negotiate his activities of daily living. His primary care physician performed a detailed neurologic examination that revealed weakness on hip flexion and hip extension and changes in sensation and proprioception, findings that raised concerns about subacute combined degeneration related to a nutritional deficiency, such as vitamin B12 deficiency. The patient was at high risk for nutritional deficiencies resulting from both decreased intake of vitamins and minerals in the context of alcohol use and decreased absorption of vitamins and minerals in the context of previous gastric bypass. He reported taking prescribed vitamin B12 and vitamin D supplements daily, and he had normal levels of those vitamins. However, he was not taking the daily multivitamin that is recommended after bariatric surgery, and he could have had other nutritional deficiencies. Ingested copper is stabilized by gastric acid and absorbed by the stomach and proximal small intestine. Copper deficiency after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass is increasingly recognized as a cause of myeloneuropathy that is similar to vitamin B12 deficiency.6,7

The patient was at risk for deficiencies in all B vitamins, but he reported adhering to thiamine supplementation and had no evidence of encephalopathy. For example, his decision to rent a wheelchair showed high executive functioning. He was not taking folic acid supplements, and isolated folic acid deficiency is an underappreciated cause of a slowly progressive and sensory-dominant pattern of peripheral neuropathy.8 Laboratory testing that was performed on admission ruled out other causes of peripheral neuropathy, such as diabetes, neurosyphilis, HIV infection, and Lyme disease. The creatine kinase level was normal, which ruled out a purely myopathic process.

I would have been confused by the fact that this patient's deep-tendon reflexes were normal, because this finding argues against most causes of peripheral neuropathy. It is possible that his reflexes appeared to be normal because of the concomitant presence of peripheral neuropathy (due to alcohol use or folate deficiency) and subacute combined degeneration (due to copper or vitamin B12 deficiency), a condition that is usually associated with hyperreflexia. In one study, 32% of patients with chronic alcoholism had evidence of peripheral neuropathy and 24% had evidence of autonomic neuropathy on electrophysiological testing.9 In patients with alcohol-use disorder, the most common nutritional deficiencies are in folic acid, thiamine, and vitamin B6.

Within 2 days after vitamin supplementation was initiated, with no other intervention, the patient could stand without assistance. His fatigue and strength improved dramatically. There is only one cause of slowly progressive fatigue on exertion and weakness that responds so quickly to vitamin supplementation, and that is scurvy, a condition caused by vitamin C (ascorbic acid) deficiency.

#