## Scurvy

Vitamin C is present in many fruits and vegetables, but proper food preparation is necessary to avoid degrading the vitamin C content. This patient is the prototypical person who is at risk for the development of "bachelor scurvy," a condition that occurs among unpartnered men who prepare their own meals or eat out frequently, drink heavily, and eat virtually no fruits or vegetables.10 The third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey estimated that 14% of men and 10% of women in the United States have vitamin C deficiency.11 

In contrast with most other mammals, humans do not synthesize vitamin C, an essential nutrient that is necessary for many enzymatic reactions in its role as an electron donor and is critical in the synthesis of catecholamines.12 In addition, in vitro experiments have shown that vitamin C binds to the alpha-adrenergic receptor, enhancing its activation by epinephrine.13 Vasomotor instability with shock is thought to be one of the primary causes of sudden death in patients with scurvy.14 In this patient, the orthostatic hypotension, bruising, gingival bleeding with loss of teeth, progressive fatigue, and rapid reversal of weakness after the initiation of multivitamin supplementation were all consistent with the diagnosis of scurvy. In addition, heavy alcohol consumption decreases the absorption of vitamin C, further increasing the likelihood that scurvy will develop.15

Scurvy has not been associated with peripheral neuropathy, but other factors could explain the peripheral neuropathy in this patient, including folic acid deficiency and the toxic effects of alcohol on the peripheral and autonomic nervous system. Although a patient with scurvy would be expected to have a more pronounced macrocytic anemia, this patient had hyponatremia and a low urine sodium level on admission, findings that most likely suggested volume contraction. Also, he most likely had both iron deficiency and folate deficiency, resulting in a falsely normal mean corpuscular volume. The borderline high red-cell distribution width supports the possibility that he had red cells with varying volumes. Iron absorption is facilitated by vitamin C and is also limited by Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. Although the patient did not have cutaneous manifestations of impaired collagen synthesis, which is a hallmark of scurvy, overwhelming evidence suggests that scurvy would be the most likely diagnosis in this case. Since vitamin C deficiency would not explain all the features of this patient's presentation, I assume that he had other vitamin deficiencies that were caused by the same underlying problem that had led to vitamin C deficiency. To establish the diagnosis of scurvy, I would obtain the blood vitamin C level.

Dr. Meridale V. Baggett (Medicine): Dr. Schmitt, what was your clinical impression when you initially evaluated this patient?

Dr. William P. Schmitt: When this patient presented to my primary care office after his first fall, I thought he had just stumbled in the night. I was most worried about his drinking, and we spent most of the visit talking about his alcohol intake and its effects on his health. I offered him outpatient treatment for alcohol-use disorder, which he declined.

The patient returned to my clinic 4 months later in a wheelchair and reported three additional falls. He could no longer walk and had extensive facial bruising. I took him to the emergency department for an evaluation of head trauma and new leg weakness that had been detected on neurologic examination. After 2 days in the hospital, the patient's condition had rapidly improved with vitamin repletion. At the time, I was reading Patrick O'Brian's series that begins with *Master and Commander*, and when I visited the patient in the hospital, I realized that he had spongy gums, loose teeth, bruising, and hair loss on the arms and legs, symptoms seen in Dr. Maturin's patients with scurvy on Desolation Island. Scurvy could also explain the patient's profound orthostatic hypotension and loss of vascular tone.