## Coronary-Artery Aneurysm Or Fistula

What else can cause an extracardiac mass on the right side of the heart? Because most disorders of the mediastinum are unlikely causes in this case, we must consider the general anatomical area external to the right side of the heart, which includes the right coronary artery. Coronary arteries can enlarge and develop aneurysm, defined as dilatation of a coronary artery that exceeds the diameter of the largest coronary artery by 1.5 times. What causes coronary-artery aneurysm? There are congenital causes, and connective-tissue disease is a risk factor for the development of coronary-artery aneurysm. However, this patient had undergone coronary angiography before CABG, and there had been no mention of aneurysm. Kawasaki's disease (the mucocutaneous lymph-node syndrome) is commonly included in the differential diagnosis for coronary-artery aneurysm. Patients with Kawasaki's disease usually present with a febrile illness during infancy or childhood, and coronary-artery aneurysm typically develops during the weeks after the onset of illness; approximately 50% have regression of the aneurysm, with the lumen returning to a normal diameter. If Kawasaki's disease with associated coronary-artery aneurysm had been present in this patient, it would have been noted at the time that angiography or CABG had been performed.

In adults, the most common cause of coronary-artery aneurysm is atherosclerotic disease, and this patient had a known history of coronary artery disease and ongoing risk factors. Other causes of coronary-artery aneurysm include trauma, dissection, and complications from percutaneous coronary intervention, none of which are relevant in this case. Another entity to consider is coronary–cameral fistula, an abnormal communication between a coronary artery and a cardiac chamber. This most commonly involves communication between the right coronary artery and a chamber on the right side of the heart. Patients with a coronary–cameral fistula can present with myocardial ischemia (due to coronary steal) or with left-to-right shunting of blood if the fistula terminates on the right side of the heart, but in this patient, these findings had not been noted on previous angiography.

##