## Saphenous-Vein–Graft Aneurysm

It is notable that the patient had previously undergone CABG, with saphenous-vein grafting to the right coronary artery. The failure rate is higher with saphenous-vein grafts than with internal-mammary-artery grafts. Aneurysm is an unusual complication of saphenous-vein grafts. The literature consists mainly of case reports and case series, and in a review of more than 5500 saphenous-vein grafts, the estimated incidence of aneurysm was 0.07%. This is most likely a low estimate, since saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm is often clinically silent.

A systematic review of saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm showed that it arises a mean of 13 years after the initial bypass surgery, usually occurs during the sixth decade of life, and is found predominantly in men, which may reflect the higher incidence of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease in men than in women. Aneurysmal saphenous-vein grafts are most commonly targeted to the right coronary artery (in 38% of cases). Aneurysm growth rates vary, but larger aneurysm portends an increased risk of complications; the mean size of the aneurysm at the time of identification is 6.0 cm. Signs and symptoms of saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm are more likely to occur when the aneurysm is larger because it compresses adjacent mediastinal structures, such as heart chambers, great vessels, or even the bronchial tree. External compression of the right atrium or right ventricle occurs in nearly 20% of cases. Chest pain or shortness of breath develops in more than half the cases of saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm, but in nearly one third of cases, the aneurysm is discovered incidentally. Myocardial infarction is the presenting symptom in approximately 8% of cases, and heart failure and syncope each occur in approximately 2%. The diagnosis of saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm is the leading consideration in this patient.

To establish the diagnosis, it is necessary to assess the size of the aneurysm, the patency of the affected graft, and the status of the native coronary artery, as well as the effect on adjacent structures. Angiography of the coronary artery and graft may be of limited use if there is an intraluminal thrombus or the aneurysm is thrombosed because the aneurysm can be missed or its size underestimated. Cardiac CT is the preferred test, with cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as an alternative, to confirm the diagnosis and determine the effect on adjacent heart structures. In this patient, one possible mechanism of syncope is that alcohol use and associated dehydration made him more susceptible to hemodynamically significant external compression of the right side of the heart and orthostatic hypotension. Another possibility is that myocardial ischemia led to arrhythmia, but on the basis of the findings on TTE, the hemodynamic explanation appears to be more probable.

Dr. Dudzinski: Dr. Hucker, what was your clinical impression when you evaluated this patient?

Dr. Hucker: Our clinical diagnosis was syncope due to insufficient ventricular preload in the context of decreased venous return due to excessive alcohol consumption and furosemide use, compounded by impaired filling on the right side of the heart caused by external compression from a saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm.

#