## Discussion Of Management

Dr. Philip J. Saylor: There are two key questions in the treatment of this patient: what is this patient's prognosis, and what is the best treatment approach? The natural history of renal-cell carcinoma associated with fusion of *TFEB* is not well described because the tumor type is so rare. TFEB translocation tumors account for a clinically significant proportion of pediatric renal cancers but are rare in adults. Clinical suspicion would be higher in young adults than in older adults. Among reported cases, distant metastases are unusual but have occurred. This patient had a favorable tumor stage (T2) and no nodal involvement, which suggests that he had a low risk of tumor recurrence and hence a good prognosis.

Should this patient be treated with adjuvant systemic therapy after surgery? In short, adjuvant 

therapy has a limited role in the management of renal-cell carcinoma. The most-studied agents for adjuvant treatment are sunitinib, sorafenib, and pazopanib, which are all multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors that derive their activity primarily from inhibition of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor. All three agents have failed to improve outcomes in a phase 3 study. The use of sunitinib resulted in prolonged disease-free survival in a study that involved only patients with clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma. Although these results led to the approval of sunitinib by the Food and Drug Administration for this indication, sunitinib has limited activity in non–clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma. In this patient, who had an exceedingly rare variant that was probably associated with a good prognosis, we recommended postoperative surveillance with physical examination, a comprehensive metabolic blood panel, and chest and abdominal imaging every 3 to 6 months initially. In addition, we referred the patient for genetic counseling to discuss his tumor and the potential implications for his family members.

Dr. Othon Iliopoulos: The decision to refer a patient with renal-cell carcinoma to genetic counseling is informed by the presence of factors that are known to be associated with an increased incidence of germline mutations, including the onset of disease at an age of younger than 45 years, a personal or family history of a second renal-cell carcinoma, or a personal or family history of an extrarenal lesion, which is associated with a hereditary form of renal-cell carcinoma. This patient's age and family history of cancer, including gastrointestinal stromal tumor in his mother and skin melanoma in his father, make a compelling case for genetic evaluation. Specifically, patients with a germline mutation in the SDH family of genes (encoding the succinate dehydrogenase subunits) may present with a personal or family history of single or multiple clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma, gastrointestinal stromal tumor, pheochromocytoma, paraganglioma, or pituitary tumor. Patients with a germline mutation in *BAP1* may present with clear-cell renalcell carcinoma in the context of a personal or family history of epithelioid atypical Spitz tumors, skin or uveal melanoma, or thoracic or peritoneal mesothelioma. Finally, patients with a germline mutation in MITF may present with renal-cell carcinoma and skin melanoma.

Targeted exome sequencing of this patient's tumor revealed no mutations in the VHL, MET, FH, FLCN, SDH, TSC1/2, PTEN, MITF, BAP1, CDKN2B, or *PBRM1* genes. Although this is not formal germline testing, it is reasonable to assume that germline mutations would be captured by exome sequencing of the tumor. Nevertheless, we recommend formal genetic counseling and testing of this patient for germline mutations. Targeted exome sequencing revealed the presence of germline variants of unknown significance in the KPR1B, GPR124, PDGFRA, SF3B1, FGFR4, and *JAK2* genes. The identification of germline variants of unknown significance presents a clinical challenge in the postgenomic era of medicine, in which high-throughput sequencing information is becoming increasingly available. Currently, we cannot use this patient's information regarding germline variants of unknown significance to identify family members who are at risk.

Dr. Dudzinski: Dr. Salari, how is the patient doing now?

Dr. Salari: It has been 2 years since the patient's surgery. He is doing well, with no evidence of recurrent disease or metastasis on surveillance imaging. He has returned to work, and his wife delivered their second child.

Dr. Mitchell Benson (Urology, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons): Although patients with large renal tumors have a higher recurrence rate than those with smaller renal tumors, the outcomes associated with partial nephrectomy have not been shown to be significantly different from the outcomes associated with radical nephrectomy for patients with large tumors, provided that resection results in negative margins. Did you consider performing a partial nephrectomy in this patient, who, given his age, may be at an increased risk for cancer in the contralateral kidney in the future?

Dr. Salari: We typically favor a nephron-sparing approach, when possible, for patients with an increased risk of future renal cancer, such as patients with an inherited renal cancer syndrome. However, owing to the size and location of the mass, a partial nephrectomy was not technically feasible in this case.

Dr. Dahl: We have learned a lot in the past two decades about nephron-sparing surgery, and we make every effort to preserve as much renal function as possible. As a lesion becomes larger, 

The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

there is a higher chance of venous invasion and thus a lower chance of obtaining a clear margin. Size correlates with the aggressiveness of the tumor, so I would generally not consider a partial nephrectomy, except in rare circumstances. For example, in a patient with a tumor in a solitary kidney or a patient with severely compromised renal function, it can be technically feasible to perform a partial nephrectomy with the hope of precluding the need for dialysis.

Dr. Francis J. McGovern (Urology): Given the association with the development of melanoma, would you implement a dermatologic screening protocol in a patient with a germline mutation in MITF?

Dr. Iliopoulos: I absolutely would. Dermatologic screening is potentially lifesaving in patients with a mutation in *MITF*, and lifetime surveillance for melanoma would be conducted.