## Pathological Discussion

Dr. Chin-Lee Wu: The specimen that was submitted for pathological evaluation was a roughly spherical 10.5-cm, well-circumscribed, golden yellow, solid and cystic mass that was confined to the kidney. Microscopic examination revealed no invasion of adjacent fat or vasculature. All resection margins were negative. The renal parenchyma that was not associated with the mass was normal, with no additional tumor nodules. Larger cells that contained abundant clear-to-eosinophilic cytoplasm were arranged in large and small nested patterns (Fig. 3A and 3B); these cells are consistent with either clear-cell or chromophobe renal-cell carcinoma. However, a focal population of smaller cells was surrounded by the larger cells, and the smaller cells were admixed with eosinophilic hyalinized material (Fig. 3B). The presence of these smaller cells in this patient suggested the diagnosis of t(6;11) TFEB (encoding transcription factor EB) translocation renal-cell carcinoma.

Immunohistochemical examination of the larger and smaller tumor cells revealed diffuse expression of PAX8, a finding that supports a renal tubular origin. The tumor cells were negative for carbonic anhydrase IX, a protein that is usually expressed in clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma when the von Hippel–Lindau protein is absent and the gene encoding hypoxia-inducible factor 1α is activated. The cells were focally positive for CD117 (c-Kit), a protein that is diffusely expressed in chromophobe renal-cell carcinoma; however, the level of expression was lower than expected and insufficient to support the diagnosis of chromophobe renal-cell carcinoma. Epithelial markers that are commonly expressed in most renal-cell tumors were underexpressed in the tumor cells; epithelial marker A was not detected (Fig. 3C), and there was focal weak expression of cytokeratin. The tumor cells expressed melanocytic markers; there was diffuse and strong expression of melan-a (Fig. 3D) and patchy expression of HMB45. This distinct morphologic and immunologic profile supports the diagnosis of t(6;11) *TFEB* translocation renal-cell carcinoma. The diagnosis was confirmed by detection of *TFEB* translocation with fluorescence in situ hybridization with a dual-color breakapart probe.

TFEB belongs to the group of genes in the 

The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

MiT family, which includes MITF, TFE3, *TFEB*, and *TFEC*. The associated proteins have the ability to homodimerize and heterodimerize, bind to defined enhancer-box DNA sequences, and activate the expression of specific genes. Translocations involving TFE3 and *TFEB* can be found in renal-cell carcinoma. The resulting tumors are listed in the 2016 World Health Organization classification of renal tumors as MiT family translocation renal-cell carcinomas, namely Xp11 renal-cell carcinoma (with fusion of TFE3) and t(6;11) renal-cell carcinoma (with fusion of *TFEB*). These tumors share clinicopathological features and are disproportionately seen in young adults and pediatric patients. The tumor cells underexpress epithelial markers and overexpress melanocytic markers and their respective gene (*TFE3* or *TFEB*). A genetic assay to detect gene fusion can be performed to confirm the diagnosis.