## Discussion Of Management

Dr. Gregory K. Robbins: This patient's history of abdominal pain and exposure to freshwater crabs in Central America raised concerns about *A. costaricensis* infection. Although other parasitic infections can involve the blood vessels, the parasites are more commonly microfilariae than adult forms, so the presence of an adult nematode in the abdominal vasculature makes *A. costaricensis* infection the most likely diagnosis in this case.

There are two members of the angiostrongylus genus that cause disease in humans. *A. cantonensis* causes eosinophilic meningitis and is found in areas of Asia. *A. costaricensis* was initially discovered in Costa Rica but has been reported throughout Central America, South America, and the Caribbean. Rats, marmosets, and coati are the definitive hosts. Adult parasites living in these hosts lay eggs, which are excreted in feces and then ingested by paratenic hosts, such as snails, slugs, freshwater crabs, and crayfish. Infection in humans can occur after ingestion of undercooked freshwater crabs or crayfish or ingestion of produce contaminated by snails or slugs. Incubation can be as short as 3 to 4 weeks, but in some cases, a more indolent course can develop, over a period of months.

In most patients who are infected with *A. costaricensis*, symptoms resolve spontaneously. Severe cases can lead to surgery for the diagnosis and definitive treatment of the infection. In young children, infection with *A. costaricensis* can mimic appendicitis, and many cases are found incidentally during surgery for presumed appendicitis. There is no proven role for anthelmintic therapy, and such treatment may initially worsen the disease. For this patient, we recommended no treatment, since the worm had been resected. We also opted to administer empirical therapy with ivermectin, because strongyloidiasis is another common cause of eosinophilia. Treatment for latent tuberculosis infection has also been planned.

This patient will continue to spend time in both Guatemala and New England, so we discussed strategies for avoidance of reinfection. We recommended that she not eat undercooked snails, crayfish, prawns, or frogs and that she wear gloves if handling slugs or snails and wash her hands well afterward. We also recommended that she wash fruits and vegetables well or eat only cooked produce, since produce may be contaminated by slime from slugs.