## Next Steps

I think helminth infection is the most likely cause of this patient's eosinophilia and colonic mass, but colon cancer is a life-threatening diagnosis that must not be missed. I would recommend surgical excision of the mass as the next diagnostic step to definitively rule out cancer, but for this patient's sake, I hope a helminth infection will instead be identified.

Dr. Meridale Baggett (Medicine): Dr. Staller, what was your impression when you first evaluated this patient?

Dr. Staller: I met this patient in the context of performing a colonoscopy to further evaluate a suspicious lesion that had been seen on CT of the abdomen. The ulcerated mass, which I was able to view endoscopically in the ascending colon, was associated with a broad differential diagnosis, including infectious diseases, inflammatory disorders, and cancer. In this patient from Central America who had peripheral eosinophilia and an ulcerated colonic lesion, we considered both strongyloidiasis and amebiasis. In addition, the location of the lesion on the right side was suggestive of colonic infection with *M. tuberculosis*. Use of NSAIDs can result in mucosal injury throughout the gastrointestinal tract, and NSAID-induced colonic lesions commonly appear as well-demarcated ulcers, similar to the lesion seen in this patient.13 However, the appearance of the lesion was also consistent with cancer, including primary colonic adenocarcinoma or colonic lymphoma.

Next, we had to decide between pursuing tissue sampling only and pursuing removal of the mass. Although removal can offer curative treatment for benign and early cancerous lesions, attempted removal of advanced lesions that have most likely invaded the deep submucosa or beyond may place the patient at undue risk of complications. Given the advanced appearance of the lesion in this patient, a strategy of tissue sampling only was pursued. Biopsy specimens were obtained from the mass with cold forceps, although it was difficult to get large pieces of tissue because of the unusually firm texture of the mass. Submucosal tattoos were placed proximal and distal to the lesion to facilitate its localization in the event that subsequent surgical removal would be pursued. Although the results of endoscopic biopsy were inconclusive, the most serious concern was cancer, and the patient was referred to the colorectal surgery clinic.