Historically, colorectal cancer in pregnancy has been rare, occurring in 1 in 13,000 pregnancies.

However, the convergence of two trends - the increased incidence of young-onset colorectal cancer and the increase in delayed childbearing - may place more women at risk. Some symptoms of pregnancy (e.g., anemia, bloating, and a change in bowel habits) overlap with symptoms of colorectal cancer, and thus the cancer diagnosis can be delayed. However, in studies involving patients with colorectal cancer, survival did not differ significantly between pregnant women and age- and stage-matched controls; this finding suggests that poor outcomes are more likely to be related to the aggressive features of sporadic, early-onset disease than to pregnancy. In the absence of a family history of colorectal cancer, this patient's disease was likely to be sporadic and to have an aggressive natural history, and indeed, she presented with a poorly differentiated tumor. The location of her tumor on the left side was consistent with most cases of sporadic, young-onset colon cancer. The cancer was likely to have arisen from a different genetic pathway than colorectal cancers in older patients.

Dr. Sgroi: Dr. Clark, if this patient were to opt for chemotherapy, what would be your approach to her treatment?

Dr. Jeffrey W. Clark: Data on the treatment of pregnant patients with metastatic colorectal cancer are limited. Case reports suggest that FOLFOX (fluorouracil, leucovorin [folinic acid], and oxaliplatin) chemotherapy can be administered safely until the fetus is sufficiently mature to deliver (gestational age, ≥33 weeks). However, there is very little information on long-term outcomes among the children. In this case, the baby was delivered successfully before the patient had decided whether to undergo chemotherapy.

This patient's tumor was located on the left side, in the sigmoid colon, and was poorly differentiated; these features suggest an aggressive phenotype. Because she had numerous metastatic lesions on both lobes of the liver and had metastasis to lymph nodes, her tumor was not amenable to surgical resection and therefore was not curable. If the patient were to choose to undergo treatment, we would recommend initial FOLFOX chemotherapy, with the plan to add an anti–epidermal growth factor receptor agent such as cetuximab or panitumumab if she were to have a response to the initial cycles of treatment. This strategy is based on the fact that she had primary cancer involving the left side of the colon without RAS or BRAF mutations. Small studies showed that FOLFOX chemotherapy was associated with an acceptable side-effect profile in patients with the same degree of liver dysfunction that was seen in this patient. Given the hepatobiliary clearance of irinotecan, the administration of FOLFIRI (fluorouracil, leucovorin, and irinotecan) or FOLFOXIRI (fluorouracil, leucovorin, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan) chemotherapy would be contraindicated in this patient because of the clinically significant abnormal results of liver-function tests.

In considering possible later treatment approaches if the patient's cancer were to progress after standard chemotherapy, a couple of additional points about the biology of her tumor are worth mentioning. Despite her young age, her tumor had microsatellite stability, as indicated by the preserved nuclear expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 in tumor cells. This means that she would not be a candidate for checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy, which was recently approved for use in patients whose tumors have microsatellite instability. In addition, her tumor had HER2 amplification on fluorescence in situ hybridization, a finding that is seen in approximately 4 to 5% of colorectal cancers. Tumors with HER2 amplification have had a response to a combination of trastuzumab (a monoclonal antibody that targets HER2) and lapatinib (an inhibitor of HER2 kinase activity) and to a combination of trastuzumab and pertuzumab (a monoclonal antibody that inhibits HER2 kinase activity in a different way) in clinical trials. The patient and her family were left with a very difficult decision. Her clinical status was deteriorating and she had a progressive decrease in liver function, and thus the need for a decision about therapy was urgent. She had recently given birth and had a desire to spend time with her newborn, and she was ambivalent about chemotherapy. On the basis of these considerations, a palliative care approach without specific treatment would be reasonable but would result in a very limited life expectancy. In contrast, several features of her case would support the administration of chemotherapy. First, she was young and had a strong desire to be with her baby

as long as possible. Second, she had not previously undergone chemotherapy, so her chances of having a response to initial treatment were increased. Finally, she did not have any abnormalities in organ function that would prohibit treatment.

The options of chemotherapy and supportive care were discussed in a family meeting that involved several family members and multiple members of the health care team. The patient opted to not start chemotherapy and to see how she did clinically before reconsidering. Unfortunately, her clinical status deteriorated rapidly, and after delivery of the baby, she was admitted to the surgical intensive care unit (ICU), where her condition further deteriorated over a period of 72 hours. Several days after the family meeting, the patient and her husband made the decision to decline treatment with chemotherapy and to proceed with comfort measures only. The patient saw her baby only once and died 5 days later under in-hospital hospice care, with her husband and brother at her side.