Dr. Murphy: This patient had received a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the sigmoid colon with widespread metastasis to the liver and lymph nodes. Historically, colorectal cancer has been uncommon among younger people, with a median age at diagnosis of 67 years. Screening with colonoscopy has lowered the overall incidence of colorectal cancer. However, the incidence among younger people has increased at a pronounced rate. As compared with people born around 1950, among whom rates of colorectal cancer are the lowest, people born in 1990 have twice the risk of colon cancer (predominantly cancer involving the left side of the colon) and more than 4 times the risk of rectal cancer. Data show that 11% of colon cancers and 18% of rectal cancers occur in patients 20 to 49 years of age and are considered to be young-onset cases. This patient had young-onset colorectal cancer, which encompasses a heterogeneous group of diseases associated with unique molecular mechanisms, clinical presentations, and prognoses. In a greater proportion of young-onset cases than of older-onset cases, the underlying cause is a known genetic syndrome, such as the Lynch syndrome and familial adenomatous polyposis. The risk of young-onset colorectal cancer is up to 4 times as high among people who have a family history of colorectal cancer, particularly in a first-degree relative, as among those who do not have a family history. This suggests that the disease is associated with complex trait genetics and epigenetic modifiers of risk. However, in the majority of young patients with colorectal cancer, the disease is sporadic. This can lead to a delay in diagnosis, since the index of suspicion is low. Sporadic cancers involving the left side of the colon in young patients represent a unique subset of the disease. Such cancers tend to be aggressive and poorly differentiated, often with signet-ring cell differentiation. In general, they are associated with a poor prognosis. This patient's cancer appears to be consistent with this entity.