Dr. Riley: Once the primary cancer was identified, we tried to balance the patient’s autonomy with what had become a small window of opportu- nity for treatment. It was the team’s impression that treatment would be less complicated if the patient delivered the baby and received chemo-therapy after delivery. Because the gestational age was now almost 34 weeks, the results of fetal testing had been reassuring, and betamethasone had been administered to assist in the progression of fetal lung maturity, the neonatal outcome was likely to be excellent.
Over the course of 10 days, the patient be- came progressively weaker, needed higher doses of narcotics to control her pain, and had in- creasing edema that extended from her feet to her breasts. On a daily basis, we discussed the options for treatment either with the baby in utero or after delivery, but the couple declined delivery and delayed the decision about treat- ment. During this time, it was difficult to man- age the patient’s pain while allowing her to re- main alert enough to participate in the decision process. Her liver function worsened, with in- creasing hyperbilirubinemia, hyperammonemia, and metabolic acidosis, and we eventually focused on delivery for the baby’s well-being. Ultrasonog- raphy revealed that the baby was in the breech position. Thus, a cesarean delivery was planned with input from multiple teams, including anes- thesia, intensive care, and oncology. Our plan had been to perform the cesarean delivery, allow some time for recovery, and then administer chemotherapy. Even after all was planned, the couple declined delivery until 35 weeks of gesta- tion, when it was clear that fetal compromise was imminent and the patient’s ability to survive major surgery was waning.
At 35 weeks 0 days of gestation, the patient underwent a primary classic cesarean delivery, with a vertical skin incision, while she was under general anesthesia. The baby was delivered without complications. The 1-minute and 5-minute Apgar scores were 8 and 9, respectively, and the measurements of cord-blood gases were normal.
