Dr. Basnet: Sections of the placenta were submitted for histopathological examination. Several foci of large malignant cells were present in the space between and surrounding chorionic villi. The cells were morphologically similar to those in the adenocarcinoma of the colon. Immunohistochemical staining revealed multiple additional foci of tumor cells, which were strongly positive for CK20 and showed some positivity for SMAD4 (retained) and CDX2.

Maternal cancer is an important indication for placental examination, because malignant tumors can metastasize to the placenta. When such metastasis is present, the cancer is advanced to stage IV. In very rare cases, the tumor crosses the placenta and spreads to the fetus. The most common primary placental cancer is choriocarcinoma in situ, and the most common cancer with metastasis to the placenta is melanoma. Gastrointestinal cancer with metastasis to the placenta has been reported previously but is rare.

Figure 3. Specimen of the Placenta. Immunohistochemical staining shows several foci of large malignant cells in the space between and surrounding chorionic villi. The cells are morphologically similar to those in the adenocarcinoma of the colon and are strongly positive for CK20.

Dr. J. Drucilla Roberts (Pathology): Because there is a small risk of transplacental involvement in the baby, how will the baby be monitored?

Dr. Riley: The recommendation is that the baby undergo ultrasonography periodically, approximately every 6 months. When I last spoke with the father, the baby had been screened at least once and had had an extensive negative workup in the neonatal ICU.

A Physician: Why do you think the patient and her husband had such a difficult time deciding whether to deliver the baby and to initiate chemotherapy?

Dr. Riley: Perhaps the most frustrating aspect of this case, which will haunt me for a long time, is the difficulty we had in conveying all the information and the urgency of the situation to this patient and her husband. Although we tried every possible way of communicating with them and offered everything we could think of to help them make these decisions, we ultimately could not make a breakthrough until it was too late.
