Dr. Kristen M. Basnet: On histopathological examination of sections of the colon-biopsy specimen, fragments of colonic mucosa were largely replaced by a malignant cellular proliferation that was composed of large, atypical cells with prominent nucleoli, brisk mitotic activity, and areas suggestive of possible gland formation; these findings are consistent with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. Immunohistochemical staining revealed preserved nuclear expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 in the tumor cells, findings that indicate the presence of microsatellite stability and thus rule out the Lynch syndrome (Fig. 2).

We also had the opportunity to review the liver-biopsy specimen that was obtained at the second hospital. On histopathological examination of sections of the liver-biopsy specimen, multiple liver cores were heavily involved by a malignant gland-forming proliferation and were surrounded by fibrosis and abundant necrosis; these findings are consistent with moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that the tumor cells were positive for CK7, CK20, CDX2, and SMAD4 (retained), markers that are highly suggestive of colon cancer. The cells were negative for TTF1, PAX8, arginase-1, and GATA3, and these results effectively rule out cancer with a site of origin outside the gastrointestinal tract, such as lung or gynecologic cancer (Fig. 2).

Figure 1. Abdominal Imaging Studies. Abdominal MRI was performed without the administration of contrast material, owing to pregnancy. An axial, T2-weighted image (Panel A) shows multiple mildly hyperintense lesions in both lobes of the liver. CT of the abdomen and pelvis was performed after the administration of contrast material. An axial image (Panel B) shows multiple enlarged periaortic lymph nodes (arrows). A coronal image (Panel C) shows thickening of the sigmoid colon (arrowhead) with adjacent lymphadenopathy (arrow). The fetus is partially visible.

Figure 2. Biopsy Specimens of the Liver and Colon. Hematoxylin and eosin staining of the liver-biopsy specimen (Panels A and B) shows multiple liver cores that are heavily involved by a malignant gland-forming proliferation and are surrounded by fibrosis and abundant necrosis; these findings are consistent with moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma. Hematoxylin and eosin staining of the colon-biopsy specimen (Panels C, D, and E) shows fragments of colonic mucosa that are replaced by a malignant cellular proliferation with areas suggestive of gland formation; these findings are consistent with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.
