Dr. Malavika Prabhu (Obstetrics and Gynecology): A 36-year-old pregnant woman was evaluated at this hospital at 33 weeks of gestation because of newly diagnosed adenocarcinoma.

Seven months before this admission, when the patient was at her initial routine prenatal visit, transvaginal ultrasonography revealed a normal gestational sac and embryo. Thereafter, prenatal follow-up was uneventful, although she had abnormal results on a 1-hour glucose tolerance test at 27 weeks of gestation.

One week before the current evaluation, at 32 weeks of gestation, the patient had 3 days of nonradiating, severe pain in the lower back that she rated at 10 on a scale of 0 to 10, with 10 indicating the most severe pain. The pain started in the epigastric region and then migrated to the right upper quadrant and lower back. It was accompanied by severe nausea and an inability to eat any food or drink liquid without vomiting. She had night sweats and difficulty sleeping because of back pain. Four days after the pain began, the patient was admitted to the obstetrics service of another hospital.

On examination, the temperature was 36.6°C, the heart rate 96 beats per minute, the blood pressure 105/68 mm Hg, and the oxygen saturation 97% while the patient was breathing ambient air. She appeared to be uncomfortable. There was tenderness in the right upper quadrant, and the gravid uterus was soft. There was no costovertebral tenderness. The remainder of the examination was normal. The amylase and lipase levels and the white-cell differential count were normal; additional laboratory test results are shown in Table 1.

Fetal heart tones were noted on Doppler ultrasonography, and the measurements of the fetus on ultrasonography were appropriate for gestational age. The fetal biophysical profile (breathing motion, movement, tone, and amniotic-fluid volume) was reportedly normal.

Dr. Kimberly Shampain: On renal ultrasonography, the kidneys and bladder appeared normal but the liver was incidentally noted to be diffusely heterogeneous and nodular. 

From the Departments of Medicine (J.E.M., J.W.C.), Radiology (K.S.), Obstetrics and Gynecology (L.E.R.), and Pathology (K.M.B.), Massachusetts General Hospital, and the Departments of Medicine (J.E.M., J.W.C.), Radiology (K.S.), Obstetrics and Gynecology (L.E.R.), and Pathology (K.M.B.), Harvard Medical School - both in Boston.