## Discussion of Management

Dr. Marc Bouffard: There are limited data to inform the treatment of this patient who has Susac's syndrome, and we cannot rely on a well-delineated mechanism of disease to guide treatment, because the precise mechanism by which this immune-mediated endotheliopathy develops is unclear. However, therapies that target both B cells and T cells have shown efficacy in preventing or at least mitigating the accumulation of further microangiopathic disease.

The therapeutic approach for this patient with Susac's syndrome was first to induce disease remission and then to maintain it. Induction treatment included intravenous methylprednisolone therapy followed by a 1-month course of high-dose oral prednisone therapy and then a slow taper of oral glucocorticoid therapy over a period of several months. In view of the patient's rapid progression and involvement of three organs (eyes, ears, and brain), induction treatment also included four doses of rituximab, which were administered at 1-week intervals. She had a rapid clinical response to these therapies.

Glucocorticoid-sparing maintenance immunotherapy initially included rituximab and mycophenolate. However, mycophenolate was discontinued shortly after its initiation because of myalgias. Azathioprine was initiated in place of mycophenolate and was continued for 1 year before it was discontinued because of elevated aminotransferase levels. The patient has continued to receive rituximab monotherapy for the past 15 months without a clinical relapse.

The patient has undergone surveillance for subclinical relapse with serial audiometry, fluorescein angiography, and MRI of the head, including assessment of midsagittal, diffusion-weighted, contrast-enhanced images, which show the corpus callosum. The frequency with which these studies should be undertaken in clinically stable or asymptomatic patients has not been established, but repeat automated perimetry, fluorescein angiography, and MRI are recommended at 1 and 3 months after initial presentation, at a minimum. Repeat fluorescein angiography was performed in this patient at 1 week, 7 months, 17 months, and 23 months after the initial study. Arteriolar-wall hyperfluorescence did not resolve until she had been receiving immunotherapy for 1 year. However, because she did not have any new visual-field loss, therapy was not escalated. Serial MRI of the head was performed at 3, 15, and 20 months after the initial study, without any evidence of progressive lesions. Audiometry was performed at the time of diagnosis and again 7 months later, with a mildly progressive but clinically asymptomatic decrement in low-frequency auditory thresholds. A gradual withdrawal of therapy may be considered after her disease has been inactive for approximately 24 months. In the absence of long-term follow-up data and predictors of relapse, the patient will remain under close surveillance.