## Discussion Of Management

Dr. Tsiaras: Once the diagnosis of the DRESS syndrome is established, prompt identification and discontinuation of the causative drug are mandatory. The most frequently encountered culprit medications include antibiotics (e.g., sulfonamides) and anticonvulsant, antiviral, antipyretic, and analgesic agents. In most cases, clinical judgment is sufficient to determine the most likely causative drug. For more challenging cases, in which the patient has been exposed to multiple new drugs, clinical tests have been developed to aid in identification of the causative agent. These include patch tests and lymphocyte transformation tests. Correct identification and immediate withdrawal of the causative drug are associated with improved outcomes and prevention of future episodes of the DRESS syndrome.

After the suspected causative drug is withdrawn, supportive therapy is provided to patients with the DRESS syndrome. If erythroderma is present or the body surface is extensively affected by exfoliative dermatitis, then treatment in a specialized intensive care unit or burn unit may be required. Diagnostic studies are performed and repeated often to monitor for visceral organ involvement. If considerable visceral organ injury or organ failure is identified, then immediate organ-specific medical therapy is provided and the appropriate specialists are involved. Despite prompt discontinuation of the causative drug, symptoms of the DRESS syndrome typically last for more than 15 days and may persist for several months. Continued close follow-up of patients with the DRESS syndrome is recommended until complete resolution of symptoms.

Guidelines for the treatment of the DRESS syndrome are limited, and evidence for systemic treatment is derived from case series and expert opinion. Systemic glucocorticoids are considered to be first-line therapy. A dose of prednisone of 1.0 mg per kilogram of body weight per day or the equivalent, with gradual tapering over a period of 3 to 6 months, is often recommended. In milder cases of the DRESS syndrome, high-potency topical glucocorticoids may be sufficient for relief of symptoms. Glucocorticoid-sparing agents— including intravenous immune globulin, cyclosporine, cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetil, and rituximab — have been used in a small number of cases of the DRESS syndrome, with varying efficacy. The use of antiviral drugs that are effective against HHV-6 has been proposed for the treatment of patients who have the DRESS syndrome and confirmed HHV-6 reactivation; however, evidence is insufficient to support the use of such treatment.

This patient's cutaneous eruption diminished over the course of his hospitalization; only hydrated petrolatum was used to manage the symptomatic dry desquamation. Systemic glucocorticoid therapy was not initiated because a workup for lymphadenopathy was ongoing during his hospitalization. At the time of discharge, his eosinophil count had normalized, and results of liver-function tests were improving. The patient was seen by hematology for follow-up one week after discharge. Persistent periorbital edema was noted, but the lymphadenopathy and cutaneous eruption had continued to diminish. He was advised to take 20 mg of prednisone daily for 4 days for the treatment of persistent facial edema. Six weeks after discharge, the patient noted dry skin but no rash. The lymphadenopathy had further diminished, the facial edema had resolved, and laboratory test results were normal. The patient was taking no medications, and he had returned to work.

Dr. Dudzinski: It is very important to learn the identity of the medication that was likely to have caused the DRESS syndrome in this patient. Were you able to narrow down the list?

Dr. Tsiaras: I agree that it is important to identify the culprit medication in this case. Unfortunately, despite multiple attempts by the primary inpatient team, the precise medication remains unknown. In preparation for this discussion, we reviewed all available medical records from the other hospital; the physicians who cared for this patient had also noted that they had been unable to determine which new drug had been prescribed. To complicate the matter, the patient had taken several over-the-counter medications that he had been unable to recall. We thought it was unlikely that the statin or omeprazole was the culprit, given that he had used them for several months. In addition, the patient had possibly taken an over-the-counter nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) for analgesia, but he had been taking aspirin for a long time, so the effect would probably be related to the specific NSAID rather than the broad class of drugs. If this patient had received the recommended outpatient follow-up, patch testing could have been considered to help identify the culprit agent. I realize that this is not the ideal outcome, but unfortunately, in the care of patients, we sometimes have to acknowledge that we have incomplete information.

#