## Corticotropin-Dependent Cushing's Syndrome

In corticotropin-dependent Cushing's syndrome, unregulated corticotropin production drives excess secretion of cortisol and androgens from the adrenal gland. Pituitary corticotroph adenomas that cause excess corticotropin production (Cushing's disease) account for approximately 70% of cases of endogenous Cushing's syndrome, and nonpituitary tumors that cause ectopic secretion of corticotropin account for approximately 10% of cases. In rare cases, tumors that cause ectopic secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) can drive excess corticotropin production in the pituitary gland.

The high-dose dexamethasone suppression test, the CRH stimulation test, imaging studies of the pituitary gland, and sampling of blood from the inferior petrosal sinus are some of the tests that are commonly used to distinguish between Cushing's disease (pituitary adenomas) and other tumors that cause ectopic corticotropin or CRH secretion. I suspect that many of these tests were performed in this patient. Before learning the results, I can note a few clinical features that suggest she has a nonpituitary tumor with ectopic corticotropin secretion.

When a pituitary adenoma causes Cushing's disease, the tumor tends to be responsive to some of the regulatory controls that can suppress corticotropin production. Nonpituitary tumors with ectopic corticotropin secretion generally lack this mechanism for regulatory control, and therefore, they are typically associated with higher levels of corticotropin, serum cortisol, and 24-hour urinary free cortisol and with more severe metabolic alkalosis, muscle weakness, and thromboembolic events; all these findings were seen in this patient. Although this patient had no evidence of hyperpigmentation, striae, bruising, or infection, the hypokalemia and weight loss are particularly suggestive of a nonpituitary tumor with ectopic corticotropin secretion. Hypokalemia is present in most patients with Cushing's syndrome due to a nonpituitary tumor with ectopic corticotropin secretion, but it is present in only 10% of patients with Cushing's disease (pituitary adenoma). Weight loss is common in patients with Cushing's syndrome due to a nonpituitary tumor with ectopic corticotropin secretion, whereas weight gain and obesity are present in 90% of patients with Cushing's disease.

Finally, this patient had a florid progression of symptoms — from heart failure and hypokalemia to muscle weakness and confusion — over a period of weeks, which also supports the possibility of a nonpituitary tumor with ectopic corticotropin secretion. Patients who have Cushing's disease tend to have a more gradual progression of symptoms, over a period of months to years, whereas patients who have nonpituitary tumors with ectopic corticotropin secretion progress over a period of weeks to months.

##