## Corticotropin-Independent Cushing's Syndrome

Any disorder in the adrenal gland that causes excess cortisol production will lead to suppression of corticotropin in the pituitary gland. Corticotropin-independent causes account for approximately 20% of cases of endogenous Cushing's syndrome. In this patient, the age at onset, the possible perimenopausal status, and the development of symptoms after discontinuation of therapy with oral contraceptive pills raise the possibility of primary macronodular adrenal hyperplasia, which is caused by aberrant expression of the luteinizing hormone–chorionic gonadotropin receptor in the adrenal gland. Patients with this condition have excess cortisol production in the adrenal gland in response to elevated levels of luteinizing hormone and chorionic gonadotropin; these patients have been reported to have recurrent Cushing's syndrome during pregnancy, persistent Cushing's syndrome after menopause, and normalization of the cortisol level after the administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists.

In this patient, the luteinizing hormone level most likely increased after the oral contraceptive pills were discontinued, and the intrauterine system could have masked the presence of menopause, which would also increase the luteinizing hormone level. If she had aberrant expression of the luteinizing hormone–chorionic gonadotropin receptor in the adrenal gland, it is possible that an increased luteinizing hormone level could have triggered excess cortisol production.

Adrenocortical carcinoma is another important cause of corticotropin-independent Cushing's syndrome. This type of tumor frequently secretes androgens, which could explain the hirsutism and androgenic alopecia in this patient. Adrenocortical carcinoma is also associated with weight loss, which was seen in this patient before the development of fluid overload. Four weeks before the current admission, the patient weighed 0.2 kg less than she had weighed 5 months earlier; this weight loss may seem to be modest. However, the patient had had rapid weight gain of 4.5 kg during the month before the initial admission, which was most likely due to fluid retention. Therefore, the weight loss over that 5-month period was probably more substantial. Patients with adrenocortical carcinoma tend to be older than this patient and to have large, unilateral tumors that are easy to detect on imaging studies of the adrenal gland, along with atrophy of the contralateral adrenal gland.

Adrenal adenoma and bilateral micronodular adrenal hyperplasias also cause corticotropin-independent Cushing's syndrome. However, I would expect the adrenal glands to have a nodular appearance. This patient had bilateral adrenal hyperplasia, with a smooth appearance of the adrenal glands and with no evidence of nodular disease, findings that make any of the causes of adult-onset corticotropin-independent Cushing's syndrome unlikely.

##