## Discussion of Diagnostic Testing and Management

Dr. Krzysztof Glomski: The patient had a 24-hour urinary free cortisol level of 18,081 μg (reference range, <45), a finding diagnostic of Cushing’s syndrome. She had a corticotropin level in periph- eral blood of 512 pg per milliliter (reference range, 6 to 76), a finding indicative of a cortico- tropin-dependent process.
Dr. Andrew Z. Fenves: On the basis of these find- ings, the next step in this patient’s evaluation was to identify the source of abnormal hormone pro- duction. MRI of the head, performed according to a dedicated pituitary protocol, did not reveal any abnormalities in the pituitary gland. Our dif- ferential diagnosis included a nonpituitary tumor with ectopic corticotropin secretion, a nonhypo- thalamic tumor with ectopic CRH secretion, and iatrogenic exogenous administration of cortico- tropin, as well as the unlikely possibility of Cushing’s disease due to a pituitary microadenoma that had not been visualized on MRI. This final possibility was ruled out by sampling of blood from the inferior petrosal sinus. We thought iatrogenic exogenous administration of cortico- tropin and a tumor with ectopic CRH secretion were both unlikely. We therefore obtained addi-
tional imaging studies to look for a nonpituitary tumor with ectopic corticotropin secretion. MRI of the abdomen was negative for a renal or pan- creatic mass. Pelvic and renal ultrasonography was similarly unrevealing. Somatostatin-receptor scintigraphy was also negative, prompting us to perform positron-emission tomography (PET).

Dr. Lu: PET–CT with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis, performed before and after the administration of intravenous iodinated contrast material, re- vealed a partially calcified, enhancing nodule (1.8 cm in diameter) with FDG avidity in the right anterior mediastinum (Fig. 2).
Dr. Fenves: The patient continued to have inter-
mittent confusion. Despite therapy with antihy- pertensive medications, she still had hypertension, which was most likely driven by the markedly el- evated serum cortisol level. We thought the nodule that had been identified on PET–CT most likely represented the source of ectopic corticotropin secretion. After a multidisciplinary discussion, we decided to surgically remove the nodule.
