## Presentation of Case

Dr. Sally A. Ingham (Medicine): A 45-year-old woman was admitted to this hospital because of dyspnea on exertion, fatigue, and confusion.

The patient had been in her usual state of health until 18 months before the currentadmission,whenthebloodpressurewasnotedtobe140/90mmHgduring aroutineappointmentwithherprimarycarephysician.Therapywithoralcontracep- tive pills was discontinued, but the blood pressure was persistently elevated when it was measured at home and during subsequent clinical evaluations. Results of duplex ultrasonography of the bilateral renal arterial vasculature were normal, as were levels of thyrotropin, plasma free catecholamines, plasma metanephrines, and aldosterone. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed normal ventricular func- tion, with no evidence of valvular disease or left ventricular hypertrophy; the inter-ventricular septal wall thickness was 11 mm (normal range, 7 to 11). Lisinopril was administered, and the blood pressure decreased to 120/80 mm Hg.

Four weeks before the current admission, swelling of the legs, abdominal dis- tention, intermittent dyspnea on exertion, and fatigue developed, and the patient was evaluated in the emergency department of this hospital. She reported a weight gain of 4.5 kg during the previous month, occasional episodes of confusion, and two episodes of burning chest pain during exercise that had lasted for 2 minutes each and were relieved with rest. On examination, the temperature was 36.8°C, the blood pressure 180/110 mm Hg, the heart rate 73 beats per minute, the respira- tory rate 18 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 98% while the patient was breathing ambient air. The weight was 66.9 kg; approximately 5 months ear- lier, at a clinic visit, it had been 67.1 kg. The body-mass index (the weight in kilo- grams divided by the square of the height in meters) was 22. A systolic murmur (grade 2/6) was best heard at the left sternal border. The jugular venous pressure was estimated to be 10 cm of water. The abdomen was soft, nontender, and slightly distended. There was trace nonpitting edema in the legs. The remainder of the physical examination was normal. An elec- trocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm and left-axis deviation. Laboratory test results are shown in Table 1. A chest radiograph showed a normal cardiac silhouette and small bilateral pleural effusions, with no opacities or pulmonary edema. The patient was admitted to this hospital.

The patient had a history of endometriosis and dysmenorrhea, conditions that had been treated with a levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine sys- tem. She had a remote history of palpitations that were not associated with evidence of arrhythmia on Holter monitoring. The only medi- cation was lisinopril. The patient’s mother and sister had both had venous thromboses and mis- carriages. Her maternal uncle had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; there was no family history of sudden cardiac death. The patient did not drink alcohol, smoke tobacco, or use illicit drugs. She was married and worked as a lawyer.

Furosemide was administered intravenously, and the patient reported a decrease in the dys- pnea and swelling. Daily therapy with a low dose of oral furosemide was initiated. A transthoracic echocardiogram showed hyperdynamic left ven- tricular systolic function, with an ejection frac- tion of 76% (normal range, 50 to 75), as well as biventricular hypertrophy, an interventricular sep- tal wall thickness of 14 mm, mild mitral regur- gitation, systolic anterior motion of the mitral- valve leaflets, and accelerated flow in the left ventricular outflow tract. Because the blood pres- sure was persistently elevated, the dose of lisino- pril was increased and treatment with metopro- lol and nifedipine was initiated. On the third hospital day, the patient was discharged home.

Three weeks before the current admission, dyspnea on exertion and fatigue recurred, and the patient was again evaluated in the emer- gency department of this hospital. She reported a 3-day history of malaise and night sweats. On examination, the temperature was 36.8°C, the blood pressure 148/96 mm Hg, the heart rate 84 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 16 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 96% while she was breathing ambient air. The weight was 65.3 kg. Jugular venous pulsation was not visible, and there was no leg edema; otherwise, the results of the physical examination had not changed from the previous week. Laboratory test results are shown in Table 1. Blood and urine cultures were sterile. Tests for human immuno-deficiency virus (HIV) type 1 p24 antigen and HIV type 1 and type 2 antibodies were negative. An interferon-γ release assay for tuberculosis was nonreactive. A chest radiograph showed that the pleural effusions had resolved and that no opaci- ties or pulmonary edema had developed. The patient was admitted to this hospital, and additional cardiac imaging studies were obtained.

Dr. Michael T. Lu: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the chest, performed before and after the administration of gadolinium, revealed asym- metric left ventricular septal hypertrophy (maxi- mal wall thickness, 21 mm) and mild left ven- tricular enlargement with hyperdynamic systolic function (ejection fraction, 71%). There was no evidence of myocardial iron overload, and there were small areas of late gadolinium enhance- ment in the midwall. These findings were com- patible with fibrosis due to hypertrophic cardio- myopathy (Fig. 1A and 1B).

Dr. Ingham: The patient’s prescribed dose of oral furosemide was administered, but orthostatic hypotension developed. She received intravenous fluids, and furosemide therapy was discontinued. She did not have a fever during the hospitaliza- tion. The white-cell count decreased but did not normalize. On the sixth hospital day, the patient was discharged home. The weight was 62.1 kg.

At home, the fatigue continued to decrease until 2 weeks after discharge, when recurrent fatigue, fevers, and palpitations developed. The patient was again evaluated in the emergency department of this hospital. The patient’s hus- band reported that she had become increasingly confused, irritable, and anxious. He also noted that she appeared to be weak globally, with increased respiratory effort on exertion. The patient reported frequent urination and increased thirst.
On examination, the temperature was 36.2°C, the blood pressure 135/80 mm Hg, the heart rate 98 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 18 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 98% while the patient was breathing ambient air. The weight was 60.0 kg. The patient was awake, alert, and cooperative, but she was unable to state the year or to count backward from 100 in increments of 7. She occasionally responded to questions inappropriately and with confabulation. Cranial-nerve function was normal, although the first cranial nerve was not tested. Strength was 4/5 in the proximal muscles of the arms and legs. Sensation was normal. A systolic murmur (grade 3/6) was best heard at the left sternal border. Jugular venous pulsation was not visible, and there was no leg edema. The amount of scalp hair had decreased, and hair growth on the up- per lip and chin had increased. She had no rashes, bruises, striae, or hyperpigmentation. The remainder of the physical examination was normal. Laboratory test results are shown in Table 1. Additional imaging studies were obtained.

Dr. Lu: Computed tomographic (CT) angiogra- phy of the chest, performed after the administration of intravenous contrast material, revealed segmental and subsegmental pulmonary emboli in the right lower lobe, with no evidence of strain on the right side of the heart or of pulmonary infarction. There was diffuse thickening of both adrenal glands (Fig. 1C and 1D). MRI, angiography, and venography of the head revealed no evidence of a mass, acute infarction, arterial abnormalities, or venous sinus thrombosis.

Dr. Ingham: The patient was admitted to this hospital. A continuous infusion of heparin was administered intravenously, and her prescribed medications were continued. Despite having a normal diet, the patient had persistent hypoka- lemia and received aggressive potassium supplementation.

A diagnostic test was performed.
