## Autoimmune Conditions

Autoimmune conditions are an important consideration in this case and include Behçet's syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus, ANCA-associated vasculitis, Eales's syndrome, sarcoidosis, and Susac's syndrome. Behçet's syndrome is a vasculitis that is characterized by oral and genital ulcerations. In rare cases, it is associated with neurologic deficits due to brain parenchymal involvement. Ocular manifestations are present in up to 70% of cases and can include severe necrotizing, obliterative retinal vasculitis, which is often centered on the optic disk and macula, as well as intraretinal infiltrates. This patient has no history of oral or genital aphthous ulcers, which would be suggestive of Behçet's syndrome.

One third of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus have ocular involvement, and almost any part of the eye can be involved. In some patients, retinal ischemia due to arteritis is the only ocular manifestation. Patients with the antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, which may be associated with systemic lupus erythematosus, can have arterial and venous retinal occlusions. Although this patient has a positive test for antinuclear antibodies, she does not have a rash, renal disease, or other clinical manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus.

Granulomatosis with polyangiitis is an ANCA-associated vasculitis that can have prominent orbital involvement. However, patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis are unlikely to present with isolated retinal ischemia. In polyarteritis nodosa, ocular involvement is uncommon and isolated retinal ischemia is very rare. Eales's syndrome, which most commonly occurs in young men from India, is a severe inflammatory retinal vasculitis that is associated with tuberculoprotein hypersensitivity. None of these conditions are likely in this patient.

Up to 50% of patients with sarcoidosis have ophthalmic complications, including anterior uveitis, vitritis, and posterior uveitis with retinal vasculitis. Retinal vasculitis in sarcoidosis is most likely to affect the retinal venules, whereas this patient has arterial involvement. Furthermore, this patient does not have erythema nodosum or pulmonary symptoms, which would be suggestive of sarcoidosis.

The key to identifying the underlying cause of the BRAO in this otherwise healthy woman is the additional reported symptom of episodic vertigo. Despite the absence of pathologic nystagmus, the suggestion of vestibular dysfunction and the finding of a BRAO make Susac's syndrome the most likely diagnosis in this patient.

Susac's syndrome is an acquired autoimmune disorder that causes microangiopathy of the retina, cochlea, and brain.5 In its complete form, it is characterized by a clinical triad of vision loss due to BRAOs, sensorineural hearing loss, and neurologic dysfunction. However, only a minority of patients present with the full triad.6 Although partial presentations are common, there is often a delay in diagnosis until the complete syndrome develops. Some patients present with isolated retinal findings, others with isolated tinnitus and hearing loss, and a few with isolated encephalopathy that mimics such conditions as acute demyelinating encephalomyelitis. In an evaluation for Susac's syndrome, a funduscopic examination is key to identifying retinal ischemia that is asymptomatic.

In this patient, the results of audiometry confirm the development of bilateral hearing loss. Hearing loss and tinnitus are very common features of Susac's syndrome because there is a strong predilection for microangiopathy of the cochlea. In addition, vestibular abnormalities are common. Pathologic nystagmus is not reported in this patient, but we do not know whether the examiner performed other maneuvers to elicit mild vestibular dysfunction. Nystagmus that is caused by peripheral vestibular lesions is often suppressed by visual fixation, so it may have been difficult for the examiner to observe nystagmus if the eye movements were evaluated only by having the patient track the examiner's finger. The examiner could have used other techniques to elicit nystagmus. For example, the examiner could have removed visual fixation by performing a funduscopic examination of one eye and then assessing for rhythmic eye movements in that eye while the other eye was covered, which would be indicative of peripheral vestibular nystagmus. In addition, the examiner could have had the patient perform a horizontal head-thrust maneuver and then assessed for a "catch-up" saccade, which would be indicative of dysfunction of the vestibulo-ocular reflex. Finally, the examiner could have performed a Fukuda step test by asking the patient to march in place with the eyes closed for 60 seconds and then assessing for a manner of rotation that would be suggestive of asymmetric vestibular disease. Given the patient's symptom of episodic vertigo, I suspect that more sensitive examination techniques may have confirmed the presence of new vestibular dysfunction.7

The next step that would be taken to confirm the clinical diagnosis of Susac's syndrome is the performance of retinal fluorescein angiography. In this patient, fluorescein angiography reveals arterial occlusion in the region of the known BRAO, evidence of other asymptomatic BRAOs, and vessel-wall hyperfluorescence, findings that are indicative of diffuse endothelial-cell damage. The presence of these findings at locations that are remote from the bifurcations at which emboli might lodge is consistent with a diagnosis of Susac's syndrome.

There are currently no biomarkers that can be used to establish a definitive diagnosis of Susac's syndrome. A study has evaluated the pathogenic role and diagnostic value of anti–endothelial-cell antibodies in serum in Susac's syndrome, but to date, an assay has not been sufficiently validated for clinical purposes.8

The remaining diagnostic step to be taken in this case is the performance of contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head. The remainder of this patient's neurologic examination is unremarkable, but the presence of lesions in the central corpus callosum on MRI would support the diagnosis of Susac's syndrome. The central corpus callosum is supplied by small-caliber vessels, which make it a site of preferential involvement in Susac's syndrome, and the pattern of involvement differs from that seen in other inflammatory brain diseases, such as multiple sclerosis. Other MRI findings that can be present in Susac's syndrome include leptomeningeal enhancement and lesions involving the deep gray matter.9

Dr. Sashank Prasad's Diagnosis: Susac's syndrome.

#