## Narrowing The Differential Diagnosis

Can any features of this case help us to determine the most likely diagnosis? The most striking laboratory finding is the blood creatinine level of 1.6 mg per deciliter (141 μmol per liter), which had increased from a baseline level of 1.2 mg per deciliter and is consistent with acute kidney injury. However, despite the normal baseline blood creatinine level, this patient also had chronic kidney disease with a reduced estimated GFR.

The GFR decreases naturally with age, even in the absence of renal disease, with a 35% decrease between 20 years and 70 years of age.9,10 Estimating the GFR is difficult, particularly in people with an older age, low muscle mass, or a low-protein diet.10 Because creatinine comes from muscle, people with lower muscle mass should normally have a lower blood creatinine level. In this patient, the baseline estimated GFR according to the MDRD formula was 50 ml per minute per 1.73 m2, a finding consistent with stage 3A chronic kidney disease. However, this estimated GFR is inaccurate, since the MDRD formula assumes a body-surface area of 1.73 m2. Because this patient weighed 39.2 kg, she would need to be more than 7 ft (2.15 m) tall to have a body-surface area of 1.73 m2. She had a BMI of 18.7 and a height of 4 ft 9 in. (1.45 m), and she most likely had a very low muscle mass. The Cockcroft–Gault equation can also be used to calculate creatinine clearance in estimating the GFR. This equation takes weight into account and can be helpful in patients whose weight is extremely low. According to the Cockcroft–Gault equation, this patient's baseline creatinine clearance was 22 ml per minute, indicating stage 4 chronic kidney disease.

The combination of chronic kidney disease, acute renal failure, and older age increases this patient's risk of adverse drug events. Adverse drug events are common, occurring in at least 5% of hospitalized patients,11,12 and they are more common among patients in the outpatient setting. Medications that commonly cause adverse events include oral hypoglycemic agents, oral anticoagulants, antiplatelet drugs, and opiates. This patient was taking spironolactone, which is contraindicated in patients older than 65 years who have a creatinine clearance of less than 35 ml per minute and is associated with ataxia, confusion, lethargy, hyperkalemia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and acute kidney injury.13 Another possible cause of this patient's condition is digoxin toxicity, which is characterized by confusion, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, weakness, and visual disturbances.14 The major route of elimination of digoxin is through renal excretion, and the blood level of digoxin can rise in the context of a reduced GFR. Approximately 20 to 30% of digoxin is bound to blood albumin, and factors such as older age, congestive heart failure, and renal failure reduce the volume of distribution, contributing to an increased risk of toxic effects.

This patient did not have the ataxia that is associated with spironolactone toxicity or the visual disturbances that are associated with digoxin toxicity, but otherwise, the features of her presentation fit well with both conditions. Therefore, drug toxicity, probably from digoxin, is the most likely diagnosis in this case. I suspect the diagnostic test was an immunoassay to determine the blood digoxin level.

Dr. Meridale Baggett (Medicine): Dr. Simmons, what was your clinical impression when you initially evaluated this patient?

Dr. Leigh H. Simmons: This patient had been under my care for several years, but I saw her in the office very infrequently after she lost Medicaid coverage, which was not reinstated for unclear reasons. Despite our requests that her family bring her in for routine checks and for assistance with exploring options for health insurance, her family declined to do so because of concerns about the cost of medical visits. Through our anticoagulation-management service, her international normalized ratio was checked regularly and was nearly always in the therapeutic range. Her family consistently refilled her medicines, which were available in generic form and were relatively inexpensive.

When the patient presented to the emergency department, I learned from her attentive daughters that she had been doing well at home until this sudden decline and that they thought she had a viral illness. I was especially concerned, because the patient rarely sought medical attention for illnesses. During my initial assessment in the emergency department, I thought a viral illness could have precipitated heart failure or renal failure. However, her confusion was the most worrisome feature of her presentation, and it prompted me to consider the possibility of digoxin toxicity and to request a digoxin immunoassay.

Clinical Diagnosis Digoxin toxicity.

| Dr . Meliss a L .P. M at tison's   |
|------------------------------------|
| Diagnosis                          |

Delirium due to an adverse event related to digoxin and possibly spironolactone.