Dr. Andrew S. Hoekzema (Medicine): An 83-year-old woman was admitted to this hospital in the winter because of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and confusion.

One week before admission, rhinorrhea, sore throat, and nonproductive cough developed. The patient felt feverish but did not measure her temperature at home. No family members or recent contacts had been ill. Two days before admission, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea developed. One day before admission, the patient asked her daughter repetitive questions and appeared to not recognize family members. On the day of admission, the patient reported global weakness and was brought by her daughter to the emergency department of this hospital for evaluation.

In the emergency department, the patient reported no headache, changes in vision, chest pain, shortness of breath, or abdominal pain. She had a history of rheumatic heart disease, with mitral-valve stenosis and regurgitation, atrial fibrillation, and heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction of 60%. Other medical history included osteoporosis, compression fracture of thoracic vertebrae, and chronic kidney disease with a creatinine level of 1.2 mg per deciliter (106 μmol per liter; reference range, 0.6 to 1.5 mg per deciliter [53 to 133 μmol per liter]) and an estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of 50 ml per minute per 1.73 m2 of body-surface area (reference range, >60) according to the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula. Fifteen years earlier, she had undergone open mitral-valve commissurotomy and ring annuloplasty, procedures that were complicated by the development of recurrent severe mitral-valve regurgitation, which led to pulmonary hypertension, right ventricular dilatation and hypokinesis, and severe tricuspid-valve regurgitation. Nine years earlier, she had undergone bioprosthetic mitral-valve replacement and tricuspid-valve reconstruction with annuloplasty, with placement of a permanent pacemaker for persistent atrial fibrillation with bradycardia. Eight years earlier, transthoracic echocardiography had revealed a well-seated prosthetic mitral valve, an annular ring in the tricuspid position, mild tricuspid-valve regurgitation, and normal right ventricular size and function.

In addition, 10 years earlier, a cholecystectomy had been performed.

The patient lived at home with one of her grown children, was independent in activities of daily living, and walked for 30 minutes daily. Medications included furosemide, spironolactone, metoprolol, digoxin, and warfarin. She took her daily medications from a pillbox organizer that her daughter filled on a weekly basis. Warfarin therapy was monitored monthly with measurement of the prothrombin time and international normalized ratio; almost all results had been in the therapeutic range. The patient was born in Uganda but had moved to New England when she was 64 years of age to live with her children. She did not smoke tobacco, drink alcohol, or use illicit drugs.

On examination, the temperature was 36.9°C, the blood pressure 153/60 mm Hg, the pulse 64 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 18 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 100% while the patient was breathing ambient air. The weight was 39.2 kg, and the body-mass index (BMI; the weight in kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters) 18.7. The patient was cachectic and appeared ill. She was awake but lethargic, and she responded to questions with nonsensical answers in her native language. She intermittently followed simple one-step commands and could move her arms and legs. Results of cranial-nerve examinations were normal (although the function of the first cranial nerve was not tested). The mucous membranes were dry. Bowel sounds were present, and the abdomen was nondistended, soft, and nontender on palpation. The cardiac rhythm was irregularly irregular, with a loud S2 heart sound and a systolic murmur throughout the precordium; the jugular vein was nondistended. Crackles were present in the lower lung fields. There was no leg edema. The complete blood count was normal, as were results of liver-function tests and blood levels of calcium, phosphorus, and lipase. Urinalysis was normal, except for the presence of 1+ ketones (reference range, negative). Nucleic acid testing of a nasal-swab specimen for influenza A and B viruses and respiratory syncytial virus was negative. Other laboratory test results are shown in Table 1.

Dr. Victorine V. Muse: Chest radiography (Fig. 1) revealed wires associated with median sternotomy, a single-lead pacemaker on the left side of the heart, and evidence of mitral-valve and tricuspid-valve repairs. There was evidence of stable, massive, global cardiomegaly and mild interstitial pulmonary edema. Computed tomography (CT) of the head, performed without the administration of intravenous contrast material, revealed prominent ventricles and sulci, as well as nonspecific, scattered periventricular white-matter hypodensities; there was no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage, large territorial infarction, or intracranial mass lesion.

Dr. Hoekzema: The patient was admitted to the hospital, and a diagnostic test was performed.
