## Discussion Of Management

Dr. Nagagopal Venna: It is not uncommon during the summer and fall months in New England to make a diagnosis of Lyme polyradiculitis or meningoradiculitis in a patient who presents with a syndrome of subacute, multifocal, painful radiculitis. The syndrome typically affects the arms and legs in an asymmetric fashion and is often associated with cranial nerve palsies. In contrast, this patient's symptoms primarily involved the trunk, whereas involvement of the arms and legs was less prominent. Such a presentation can lead to several diagnostic challenges. Visceral causes of pain are often appropriately investigated first, and neurologic causes are not considered unless the patient also has paresthesias, which serve as a clue of a neurologic cause of the pain. Moreover, the sensory and strength examination of the trunk and abdomen is often overlooked and not performed. In this patient, examination of skin sensation on the abdominal and chest walls and testing of abdominal-wall muscle strength were instrumental in arriving at the correct diagnosis. Lyme disease has a predilection for involvement of the thoracic nerve roots in some patients. The basis for this is not known, but there is a suggestion that localization might be related to the site of inoculation of infection.

After the diagnosis was confirmed, the patient received a 3-week course of intravenous ceftriaxone. Her diabetes was treated with a sliding scale of insulin initially, followed by metformin. The absence of distal symmetric sensory peripheral neuropathy and the rapid development of asymmetric polyradiculopathy accompanied by CSF pleocytosis made the diagnosis of diabetic polyradiculopathy improbable. The patient's pain diminished over a 4-week period. When we saw her in the clinic 4 months after the initiation of treatment with ceftriaxone, her sensation and strength of the abdominal wall had increased such that she could contract the rectus abdominis muscles while standing, but she continued to have difficulty sitting up from the supine position. The weakness of the left foot had diminished, but she still had difficulty walking on the heel.