## Localization

This patient's initial symptom was pain between the shoulder blades. Pain is the least specific symptom, but it localizes the lesion somewhere in the peripheral nervous system, with few exceptions. Injury of spinal sensory nerve roots commonly causes back pain that radiates to the axilla or flank.

A key component of this patient's neuromuscular evaluation was examination of the abdominal-wall muscles, which allow flexion of the trunk and forceful exhalation and prevent the abdominal contents from protruding. We are not told whether she had Beevor's sign (deflection of the umbilicus away from a weak segment of the rectus abdominis muscle on activation of the abdominal-wall muscles). However, we know that she was unable to sit up from the supine position and had abdominal distention that was related to diminished abdominal-wall muscle tone. The presence of concurrent numbness rules out a myopathy, so I suspect the weakness of the abdominal-wall muscles localizes to the lower thoracic or upper lumbar nerve roots.

The patient reported difficulty taking a deep breath and coughing, which could be a sign of diaphragmatic weakness from dysfunction of the upper cervical cord or brain stem. However, she did not have weakness on neck flexion or oropharyngeal dysphagia, and diaphragmatic excursion was normal on examination. Another potential cause of this patient's difficulty taking a deep breath is weakness of the external intercostal muscles, which assist in expansion of the chest cavity during inspiration and are innervated by thoracic segmental nerve roots.

Let us now consider the patient's sensory symptoms. Reduced truncal sensation implies dysfunction of the sensory tracts in the spinal cord, sensory nerve roots, dorsal-root ganglia, or segmental nerves at the affected levels. This patient's sensory loss had a bandlike or suspended distribution, meaning that it had superior and inferior boundaries. The presence of a suspended sensory level could be consistent with a small central cord lesion or syrinx with interruption of decussating spinothalamic-tract fibers in the ventral commissure. Central cord lesions can cause pain, and if they are large enough, they can affect the anterior horns, resulting in areflexic segmental weakness. However, several features of this patient's presentation argue against a central cord lesion. Central cord lesions typically result in contiguous deficits, whereas this patient had noncontiguous numbness involving the lower cervical, lower thoracic, and sacral segments, without involvement of upper cervical and lower lumbar segments. In addition, numbness of the genital area argues against a central cord lesion, because spinothalamic-tract fibers that originate in the sacral segment are located laterally within the tracts and are typically spared. The patient also had urinary incontinence, a symptom that would not be expected to occur with small central cord lesions or syringomyelia. Finally, she did not have myelopathic signs, such as spastic paraparesis, hyperreflexia, or crossed sensory signs that would suggest a large cord lesion.

A suspended sensory level can also result from spinal sensory nerve-root or ganglion dysfunction. A sensory ganglionopathy can be ruled out because the patient also had weakness. Overall, her syndrome is most consistent with a subacute polyradiculopathy or polyradiculoneuropathy, with initial involvement of the mid and lower thoracic segments, followed by involvement of the lower cervical, upper thoracic, lumbar, and sacral segments.

#