## Pathological Discussion

Dr. John A. Branda: The laboratory tests that were performed to support the diagnosis were serum antibody tests for Lyme borreliosis. A first-tier enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was reactive, prompting the performance of second-tier IgM and IgG immunoblot assays. The serum IgM immunoblot assay showed 1 of 3 specific bands (the 39-kDa band), which is a negative outcome according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) criteria. The serum IgG immunoblot assay showed 9 of 10 specific bands, which is a positive outcome according to CDC criteria. The tests indicated an expanded *B. burgdorferi* antibody response with a switch of immunoglobulin class from IgM to IgG; these results are associated with *B. burgdorferi* infection of at least 1 or 2 months' duration, and they correlate well with the patient's clinical history. In addition to serum antibody testing, CSF IgM and IgG immunoblot assays for *B. burgdorferi* and CSF polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) assays for B. burgdorferi, B. mayonii, *B. garinii*, and *B. afzelii* were performed.

When a patient is seropositive and has a characteristic clinical syndrome for Lyme neuroborreliosis, as in this case, CSF tests for Lyme disease are unnecessary to establish a diagnosis. When Lyme neuroborreliosis with central nervous system involvement is suspected, detection of intrathecal *B. burgdorferi* antibody production can support the diagnosis, but its absence does not rule out the diagnosis. The best method for the detection of intrathecal *B. burgdorferi* antibody production is determination of the CSF–serum antibody index with quantitative ELISAs or similar assays, rather than immunoblot assays. Substantial differences between results on serum and CSF immunoblot assays are not reliably present when there is intrathecal *B. burgdorferi* antibody production. In this patient, the CSF IgG immunoblot assay showed 5 specific bands and the CSF IgM immunoblot assay showed no bands. Although more bands were present on the respective serum immunoblot assays, the differences between these results do not refute intrathecal antibody production and are noncontributory. Direct detection of the infectious agent with CSF PCR assays is usually not possible. CSF PCR assays for Lyme-related borrelia are not recommended, and a negative assay (which was present in this case) does not influence diagnostic considerations, because sensitivity of the assay is poor. On the basis of the patient's clinical features and seroreactivity, the final diagnosis was Lyme meningoradiculitis.