## Presentation Of Case

Dr. Amrit Misra (Neurology): A 58-year-old woman was seen in the outpatient neurology clinic of this hospital in early autumn because of hypoesthesia, paresthesia, and weakness.

The patient had been well until 10 weeks before this presentation, when back pain developed between the shoulder blades. The pain resolved during the next 2 weeks, without an intervention. Six weeks before this presentation, numbness developed in a bandlike distribution around her trunk, with involvement of the area between the shoulder blades and the area under the breasts.

Five weeks before this presentation, the numbness extended to the upper abdomen. The patient was unable to sit up from the supine position without using her arms, and she had abdominal distention. Four weeks before this presentation, paresthesia developed in the third, fourth, and fifth fingers of the left hand and the fourth and fifth fingers of the right hand. The patient was seen at a clinic at another hospital, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spine was scheduled. However, 2 weeks before this presentation, the numbness extended to the genital area and urinary incontinence developed, prompting the patient to present to the emergency department of this hospital for evaluation.

In the emergency department, the patient reported no fevers, night sweats, change in weight, arm weakness, leg weakness, or change in gait. She had a history of hypertension, hypothyroidism, and symptomatic spinal stenosis, for which she had undergone L4–L5 decompression and bilateral medial facetectomy 6 years before this presentation. She had also undergone open reduction and internal fixation of left tibial and fibular fractures that had resulted from a fall, as well as excision of a foreign body that had punctured the right thenar.

Three months before this presentation, the patient had noted an area of nonpruritic, nonpainful erythema (measuring 8 cm in diameter) on the left gluteal fold, surrounding what she had thought to be an insect bite. Fever did not develop, and the erythema resolved during the subsequent 4 weeks. The patient's only medication was levothyroxine, and she was allergic to penicillin. She drank alcohol rarely, had smoked tobacco in the past, and did not use illicit drugs. She was married and lived with her husband in a wooded area in northeastern Connecticut. She worked in health care. There was no family history of neurologic disease.

On examination, the temperature was 36.6°C, the blood pressure 144/75 mm Hg, the heart rate 84 beats per minute, and the respiratory rate 18 breaths per minute. The weight was 74.8 kg, and the body-mass index (the weight in kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters) 25.8. There was decreased sensation on the posterior and anterior trunk and abdomen. The abdomen was distended. The remainder of the general medical examination was normal. The blood glucose level was 291 mg per deciliter (16.2 mmol per liter; reference range, 70 to 110 mg per deciliter [3.9 to 6.1 mmol per liter]). The blood electrolyte levels were normal, as were the results of tests of renal and liver function, the complete blood count, and the differential count. Imaging studies were obtained.

Dr. H. Benjamin Harvey: MRI of the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine, performed without the administration of contrast material, revealed no spinal cord compression, cord signal abnormality, or epidural collection. There were multilevel degenerative changes of the spine, as well as postsurgical changes related to remote L4–L5 decompression, without associated high-grade spinal-canal stenosis or nerve-root impingement. The nerve roots of the conus medullaris and cauda equina appeared to be normal, and there was no evidence of thickening or clumping of the nerve roots.

Dr. Misra: The patient chose to seek neurologic evaluation for her symptoms, and 2 weeks later, she was seen in the outpatient neurology clinic of this hospital. She reported stable paresthesia of the hands, ongoing numbness of the trunk and abdomen, new numbness of the upper anterior legs, and a 5-day history of difficulty lifting the front part of her left foot when she walked. She also reported difficulty taking a deep breath and coughing.

On examination, the temperature was 36.4°C, the blood pressure 106/67 mm Hg, the heart rate 77 beats per minute, and the respiratory rate 16 breaths per minute. The patient's mental status was normal, as were the results of testing of the 2nd through 12th cranial nerves. Strength was 4/5 during flexion of the left wrist, 5/5 while the patient was gripping the examiner's fingers, 4/5 during dorsiflexion of the left foot, and 4/5 during extension of the left toes; strength was otherwise 5/5. When the patient attempted to walk on her heels, she was unable to keep her left forefoot from touching the floor. Diaphragmatic excursion, as measured by percussion along the posterior chest at the end of inspiration and expiration, was symmetric. There was diminished tone in the bilateral rectus abdominis muscles, with associated abdominal distention. The patient was unable to rise from the supine position without assistance from the examiner. There was diminished sensation in response to light touch and pinprick in a bandlike distribution around the T6 dermatome spanning to the T12 dermatome. Deep-tendon reflexes were absent at the biceps on the left side and at the ankles bilaterally. The remainder of the neurologic and medical examination was normal.

Laboratory testing revealed a glycated hemoglobin level of 11.8% (reference range, <5.7), an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 25 mm per hour (reference range, <30), and normal levels of thyrotropin, creatine kinase, vitamin D, vitamin B12, and folate.

Dr. Harvey: Chest radiographs obtained in the inspiratory and expiratory views showed no evidence of parenchymal opacity, pleural effusion, or lymphadenopathy. Hemidiaphragmatic movement between inspiration and expiration was present bilaterally. On MRI of the thoracic and lumbar spine without contrast enhancement, the findings were stable, as compared with the previous study. On MRI of the thoracic spine with contrast enhancement, there was no evidence of abnormal cord or meningeal enhancement (Fig. 1).

Dr. Misra: A diagnostic test was performed.