## Discussion of Intentionality and Prevention — Public Health Perspective

Dr. Chana A. Sacks: When the patient was admitted to this hospital, he was unable to communicate and the clinical team had minimal collateral history. The patient had reportedly been upset, and a gunshot had been heard thereafter. The team presumed that this had been a suicide attempt. However, on the 19th hospital day, once the patient was awake and able to converse with the consulting psychiatrist, he clearly explained, "It was definitely an accident." The patient described the scene in detail. He said that he had been cleaning his gun, which was on its side, when his phone rang. As he reached for the phone, the gun discharged, firing a bullet into his face. He remembered holding his face in his hands and screaming. He acknowledged that he had recently been stressed at work but said that he would never intentionally hurt himself, describing his family as an important anchor in his life. He also described hobbies that he enjoyed, and he did not report feelings of hopelessness or despair, stating that he looked forward to returning to his family and his hobbies as he recovered.

Given the disconnect between the patient’s description and the team’s early presumptions about intentionality, additional collateral information was sought and ultimately obtained from investigators. A suicide note that described work-related stress, loneliness, and marital strife had been found at the scene of the injury. Investigators noted that the gun had been loaded with a single bullet, which was found lodged in the ceiling, indicating that the gun had been facing upward when it was fired. Alcohol had been present at the scene.

Risk Factors for Suicide

With this case now framed as a suicide attempt, we may consider whether it represents an isolated tragic incident or reflects a trend in the epidemiology of suicide. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recently reported that suicide rates across the United States increased substantially between 1999 and 2016, with an increase of more than 30% in half the states. In 2016, suicide was the 10th leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for nearly 45,000 deaths.

This young man, who had no known history of depression and seemed to have a good job and a supportive family, may not immediately strike clinicians as having traditional risk factors for suicide. However, a more thorough evaluation suggests that he had several important risk factors to consider.

Age: Although late adolescent boys and elderly men are classically considered to have the highest risk of suicide, the demographic characteristics associated with suicide seem to have changed over time. Between 1999 and 2016, the rate of death by suicide increased in all age groups between 10 and 75 years of age.

Mental Health: This patient had no known history of depression or another mental illness. However, data from 27 states suggest that 54% of people who died by suicide in 2015 had no known history of a mental illness. This raises two possibilities: that many people are living with an undiagnosed mental illness, or that depression or other mental illnesses may not be the only driving force leading to suicide.

Lethal Means: Whether a suicide attempt results in death is directly related to the means used to commit the act. In the United States, suicide is inextricably linked with gun violence and accounts for nearly two-thirds of all firearm-related deaths; approximately half of suicides are completed with guns. Access to a firearm is a risk factor for suicide; the odds of death by suicide among those who have access to a gun are more than 3 times as high as the odds among those who do not.

Prevention: Are there ways to prevent people from dying by suicide that was attempted at an impulsive moment? Changing their access to guns during periods of crisis has the potential to save their lives. Methods of achieving this include efforts to identify patients who are at a potentially elevated risk of suicide and to counsel them about safe storage of firearms or voluntary removal of guns from the home, as well as legal interventions, such as Extreme Risk Protection Orders (so-called Red Flag laws), which have now been enacted in 13 states.