Dr. Mary E. Sabatini: Because infertility is a diagno- sis that involves two people, we encourage each partner to sign a form for release of information that enables providers to share one partner’s medical findings with the other partner. How- ever, having permission to share information does not mean that everything is automatically disclosed. In this case, given the potential for distress related to the fact that the patient’s chro- mosomal makeup was different from the gender with which she identified, the decision was made to relay all test results, including the karyotype, to the patient without her spouse present. The mechanism for the development of a female phenotype in the context of a male karyotype was explained to the patient as a mutation in the androgen receptor that makes it nonfunctional.
At initial presentation, the patient and her husband had met with a social worker because of the need for third-party reproduction with an oocyte donor and a gestational carrier, in accor- dance with the American Society of Reproduc- tive Medicine guidelines.35,36 The same social worker was available at the time that the karyo- type was disclosed, and together, the physician and social worker addressed the psychosocial aspects of this disorder of sexual development and the implications for the patient’s marriage.
Because 70% of cases of the androgen insensi- tivity syndrome are inherited, we also discussed that there were potential ramifications for her family, particularly her two sisters.
The patient’s immediate reaction was that she would not disclose her diagnosis to her husband or family. However, she ultimately reversed this decision and told them. The patient has elected not to undergo testing to determine her specific androgen-receptor mutation. Her sisters have not yet attempted pregnancy and do not have im- mediate plans for family building, so they have not pursued genetic testing. The patient and her husband conceived with the use of an oocyte donor and a gestational carrier. A singleton in- trauterine pregnancy is ongoing.
