## Discussion of Urologic Management

Dr. Adam S. Feldman: The patient was referred to the urology clinic for management of intraabdominal gonads. She asked that we remain vague in our discussions with her husband regarding the purpose of her clinic visit. She also expressed a strong preference that we refer to the gonads only as such and that we not use the term "testes," which would have a male connotation. These requests highlight the potential psychological effects of the diagnosis of the androgen insensitivity syndrome on patients and their partners and family members.

Complete androgen insensitivity syndrome is most often diagnosed during childhood, when a testis is found at the time of an inguinal hernia repair, or at puberty, when a patient presents with primary amenorrhea. Approximately 50% of patients with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome have an inguinal hernia, and 1 to 2% of female patients with an inguinal hernia have complete androgen insensitivity syndrome. Any female patient who undergoes an inguinal hernia repair during childhood would usually also undergo routine vaginoscopy to confirm the presence of a cervix or undergo diagnostic laparoscopy by way of the hernia sac to rule out the presence of intraabdominal testes. This case is particularly interesting because the patient had reached adulthood without a specific diagnosis being made. Among adults with intraabdominal testes, the risk of testicular cancer (typically seminoma or gonadoblastoma) is approximately 1 to 2%. In comparison, the incidence of testicular cancer in the general population is 5.7 per 100,000. Among patients whose testes are removed before puberty, the risk of testicular cancer occurring before removal is extremely low.

Because this adult patient was at risk for occult or future development of cancer, we recommended surgical removal of the intraabdominal gonads. In contrast, among pediatric patients with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome, the optimal timing of orchiectomy can be challenging and an individualized approach is important. The gonads produce estradiol, which contributes to the development of a female phenotype; therefore, many prefer to leave the gonads in situ until puberty is complete. Patients for whom gonadectomy would not be delayed include those with palpable testes and those with an inguinal hernia. It is also important to ensure that the patient has a diagnosis of complete, rather than partial, androgen insensitivity syndrome; in cases of partial androgen insensitivity, virilization can occur at puberty and thus earlier gonadectomy may be preferable. Finally, one must consider the need to discuss the presence of intraabdominal testes with a postpubertal female patient and the potential psychological effects of such a discussion.

The patient underwent an uncomplicated bilateral laparoscopic orchiectomy (Video 1, available with the full text of this article at NEJM.org). Orchiectomy specimens were sent for pathological examination. After surgery, estrogen-containing hormone-replacement therapy was begun. Because the uterus was absent, no progestin was needed.

---

##