## Presentation Of Case

Dr. Caitlin Sacha (Obstetrics and Gynecology): A 31-year-old woman with infertility was referred to the fertility center of this hospital by a surrogate parenting agency to discuss the possibility of family building with an oocyte donor and a gestational carrier.

The patient reported that, when she was 16 years of age, she had been evaluated for primary amenorrhea and had received a diagnosis of congenital absence of the uterus and ovaries. When she was approximately 12 years of age, adrenarche and thelarche had occurred in association with a linear growth spurt. The patient had never had menstrual molimina or any headaches, vision problems, galactorrhea, vasomotor symptoms, or reduction in exercise tolerance.

She also reported that, when she was 10 years of age, she had fractured her arm and had undergone tonsillectomy. She took no medications and had no known allergies. Four months before the current evaluation, she had moved to New England from northern Europe; she currently lived with her husband in a suburban area and worked in an office. She drank alcohol rarely, smoked 3 to 5 cigarettes a day, and did not use illicit drugs. Her mother had conceived her children easily and had undergone hysterectomy because of endometriosis when she was 46 years of age, and her maternal grandfather had died of a myocardial infarction when he was 70 years of age. The patient's father and two sisters were healthy; one sister was the patient's fraternal twin and had regular menses.

On examination, the blood pressure was 118/74 mm Hg, the weight 68.1 kg, the height 172.7 cm, and the body-mass index (the weight in kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters) 22.8. The patient had minimal body hair. A pelvic examination revealed normal female external genitalia and normal vaginal length and rugae; there was no abnormal vaginal discharge or evidence of pelvic-organ prolapse. The cervix and uterus were absent. There was mild fullness in the left adnexal region, without tenderness or a discrete mass. The remainder of the physical examination was normal.

Ultrasonography of the pelvis confirmed the absence of the uterus and cervix. The right ovary was not visualized; there were clusters of simple cysts in the adnexal region on the right side (one measuring 24 mm by 25 mm and another measuring 18 mm by 17 mm) and on the left side (one measuring 18 mm by 17 mm and another measuring 20 mm by 21 mm). Tests were positive for rubella virus IgG antibodies and varicella–zoster virus IgG antibodies, and screening tests were negative for hepatitis B virus surface antigen, human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2, hepatitis C virus, human T-lymphotropic virus types 1 and 2, syphilis, and cytomegalovirus. The complete blood count and white-cell differential count were normal; other laboratory test results are shown in Table 1. Blood specimens were collected for measurement of the antimüllerian hormone level and for chromosome analysis.

Five days later, additional diagnostic tests were performed; laboratory test results are shown in Table 1. Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry was performed for the assessment of bone mineral density. There was borderline low bone mass in the spine on posterior–anterior examination (bone mineral density T score, −1.10), normal bone mass in the vertebral bodies on lateral examination (T score, −0.20), and normal bone mass in the femoral neck (T score, −0.90).

Four days later, a diagnostic test result was received, and management decisions were made.

---

#