## Summary

On the basis of the history and findings on examination, the most likely diagnosis in this case is either müllerian aplasia or complete androgen insensitivity syndrome. In a review of the laboratory data, the most interesting finding, which helps to distinguish between these two diagnoses, is the low level of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) noted on two separate measurements despite an elevated level of luteinizing hormone. This pattern of gonadotropin secretion would not be observed in females who have a normal menstrual cycle. Furthermore, if premature ovarian insufficiency were present, the FSH level would be elevated and would also be higher than the luteinizing hormone level, and both hormones would be at menopausal levels. In contrast, the low level of FSH is consistent with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome. As opposed to the regulation of luteinizing hormone, which is dependent solely on feedback from gonadal steroids, the regulation of FSH is dependent on feedback from both gonadal steroids and inhibin. In complete androgen insensitivity syndrome, the low levels of circulating estrogens lead to minimal negative feedback and the high levels of androgens (particularly testosterone) do not lead to feedback that causes inhibition of gonadotropins, owing to the absence of a functional androgen receptor in the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary. However, Sertoli cells secrete copious amounts of inhibin B, which selectively inhibits FSH secretion by gonadotropic cells. Given that the FSH level was suppressed in this patient, I hypothesize that she had hypersecretion of inhibin B, possibly from a tumor. Maybe the fullness on the left side that was noted on the pelvic examination represented a tumor in a testis. In general, gonadal tumors that are associated with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome are germ-cell tumors (usually gonadoblastoma, dysgerminoma, or seminoma). However, Sertoli-cell adenomas and tumors of the Sertoli and Leydig cells are also common. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) would be helpful in confirming the presence of testes and evaluating for an associated tumor in this patient.

---

#