## Discussion Of Management

Dr. Zachary S. Wallace: In a patient with polyarteritis nodosa, initial treatment considerations are determined by the status of HBV infection and disease severity. Involvement of the temporal artery and testicle can lead to critical ischemia of the affected organs. In this patient, ischemia was manifested by testicular pain, and we classified the polyarteritis nodosa as severe. Although he had a remote history of HBV infection, we did not think that HBV was driving the polyarteritis nodosa, given the negative tests for HBV surface antigen and antibodies and for HBV DNA and the normal results of liver-function tests at the time of the current presentation. The patient's illness was therefore classified as idiopathic polyarteritis nodosa.

For severe idiopathic polyarteritis nodosa, remission may be achieved with the administration of glucocorticoids in combination with cyclophosphamide or rituximab. Given the rarity of polyarteritis nodosa, there are limited data from large, randomized clinical trials to guide the choice of therapies. However, because of similarities between polyarteritis nodosa and ANCA-associated vasculitis, some providers extrapolate from findings of the Rituximab in ANCA-Associated Vasculitis (RAVE) trial, which showed that rituximab is noninferior to cyclophosphamide for the treatment of ANCA-associated vasculitis.14

2526  
The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

There is a general trend in the field of rheumatology away from the use of cyclophosphamide because of its unfavorable side-effect profile, which includes cancer and other toxic effects, such as bone marrow suppression. Because rituximab is generally associated with an acceptable side-effect profile and is often considered to be a safer alternative to cyclophosphamide, this patient was treated with rituximab and a high dose of glucocorticoids, with a plan to taper the dose over a 12-month period.

HBV replication can reactivate after treatment with rituximab,15 and the risk of reactivation varies according to the status of the patient's HBV infection. In this case, the patient had had a positive test for antibodies against HBV core antigen, but at the time of the current presentation, tests were negative for HBV surface antigen and circulating HBV DNA. He also did not have the protective immunity that is associated with having a positive test for HBV surface antibodies. Thus, this patient was at risk for HBV reactivation, which can be fatal.

To reduce the risk of HBV reactivation after treatment with rituximab, the HBV DNA levels can be closely monitored for viral reactivation16,17 or prophylactic antiviral therapy can be administered.18 Prophylactic therapy is preferred, and either tenofovir or entecavir can be used18,19; in this case, entecavir was chosen.

Dr. Keller: Fever resolved after the initiation of daily prednisone therapy. Rituximab, ivermectin (for the prevention of strongyloidiasis), and entecavir were administered before discharge. Two weeks later, the patient received rituximab, and the dose of prednisone was reduced. A test for strongyloides antibodies was positive, but there was no clinical evidence of strongyloidiasis. One month later, hypertension, headaches, confusion, and seizures developed. MRI of the head was performed, and T2-weighted fluid-attenuated inversion recovery images showed hyperintensity predominantly in the posterior region of the brain, with mild adjacent leptomeningeal enhancement. A lumbar puncture was performed, and results of cerebrospinal fluid analysis were normal. The patient was treated with antiepileptic and antihypertensive agents. On subsequent MRI of the head performed several days later, the findings had improved.

The patient received a diagnosis of the posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, the cause of which remains unknown. There are reports of this condition occurring after the administration of rituximab therapy, and we could not rule out rituximab as the culprit in this case. Thus, the decision was made to not administer additional rituximab. It was reassuring that the patient was doing well while he was receiving tapering doses of prednisone, so we elected to continue with prednisone therapy and to monitor the patient closely for recurrence of polyarteritis nodosa. The patient received prednisone for approximately 1 year after the initial presentation. A full year after the rituximab induction therapy had been administered, CD20+ B lymphocytes remained depleted. The patient continues to receive entecavir prophylaxis, with a plan to discontinue treatment 6 months after the repopulation of CD20+ B lymphocytes. There has been no recurrence of polyarteritis nodosa.