## Vasculitis

Since infectious and mechanical causes have been largely ruled out and the patient had evidence of engorged vessels on imaging studies, vasculitis rises to the top of the differential diagnosis. In the evaluation of suspected vasculitis, determining the size of the involved vessels (large, medium, or small) on the basis of features of the clinical presentation is a useful initial step. Anchoring on the involvement of the testicular vasculature allows me to rule out large-vessel vasculitis, because the testicular vessels are not large branches of the aorta. If I had chosen a different anchor, such as the presence of vision changes, systemic symptoms, and elevated levels of inflammatory markers in an older man, I may have framed the clinical scenario differently and considered the possibility of giant-cell arteritis much more closely. However, I am using the testicular symptoms as a starting point, and therefore, the likelihood of giant-cell arteritis is lower from the outset.

2524  
The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

When testicular involvement occurs as a manifestation of systemic vasculitis in adults, it is most commonly associated with polyarteritis nodosa (a medium-vessel vasculitis). However, testicular symptoms can also occur with various types of small-vessel vasculitis. For example, IgA vasculitis (a small-vessel vasculitis) can cause testicular pain and swelling; such testicular involvement may be more common in children than adults.7 However, palpable purpura is a characteristic feature of IgA vasculitis. In one case series involving adult patients, purpura affected 96% of the patients.8 Since this patient did not have purpura, a diagnosis of IgA vasculitis is unlikely.

Because testicular involvement has been reported with polyarteritis nodosa and with various types of small-vessel vasculitis,9 I will now move beyond the testicular symptoms and consider other differentiating features of this case that may help to narrow the differential diagnosis. Laboratory testing can help to differentiate between the types of small-vessel vasculitis. For example, when serum cryoglobulins, rheumatoid factor antibodies, and a low C4 level are not detected in a patient who does not have characteristic purpura, a diagnosis of cryoglobulinemic vasculitis is unlikely. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)–associated vasculitis generally affects small vessels, but ANCA testing was negative in this patient. Of note, the sensitivity of ANCA testing depends on the organ systems that are involved. Assuming that the mildly elevated creatinine level and microscopic hematuria represented vasculitis with renal involvement, the sensitivity of ANCA testing would be greater than 90% for granulomatosis with polyangiitis and approximately 70% for microscopic polyangiitis. The negative ANCA testing makes these diagnoses unlikely. The sensitivity of ANCA testing for eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis is only approximately 50%,10 and therefore, a negative test is not enough to rule out this diagnosis.

Are there any features of this patient's presentation that can help to differentiate between medium-vessel vasculitis (polyarteritis nodosa) and small-vessel vasculitis? Characterizing the extent of pulmonary involvement may become a critical point that helps to narrow the differential diagnosis. Involvement of the lung parenchyma is suggestive of small-vessel vasculitis, because inflammation of the capillaries can result in diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. In contrast, in polyarteritis nodosa, the capillaries are unaffected and therefore the parenchyma is spared. In this case, there was initially some clinical concern about pneumonia, and the patient was treated with antibiotic agents. However, on further review of the imaging studies in the context of the clinical syndrome, the nodules were stable and there were no new infiltrates or features that were consistent with diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. The known previous granulomatous disease sufficiently explains the presence of the nodules, and the stability of both the imaging findings and the pulmonary symptoms suggests that the lungs were not affected by the current process. Therefore, eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis and Goodpasture's syndrome, which has a proclivity for involvement of the lungs and kidneys, are unlikely. With active lung involvement ruled out, the most likely diagnosis in this case is polyarteritis nodosa, which also seems to be a good fit for this patient's clinical syndrome.

According to the description of the clinical features of polyarteritis nodosa from a case series involving 348 patients, this patient's presentation with multiorgan involvement is consistent with the diagnosis.11 Polyarteritis nodosa can be either associated with HBV infection or idiopathic. HBV-associated polyarteritis nodosa is attributed to immune-complex deposition in the context of active viremia.12 Although this patient had a remote history of HBV infection, HBV DNA was not detected at the time of this presentation, and therefore, HBV is unlikely to be the cause in this case.

To establish a diagnosis of polyarteritis nodosa in this patient, I would recommend performing a biopsy of the left testicle. Given that treatment with immunosuppression would probably be initiated quickly if a diagnosis of polyarteritis nodosa is confirmed on biopsy, I would consider additional testing and treatment that could be important to pursue before the initiation of immunosuppression. Since the previous HBV infection puts the patient at risk for viral reactivation, I may consider viral prophylaxis. Given the fluctuating eosinophilia (which remains unexplained by the diagnosis of polyarteritis nodosa) and the history of emigration from a region where strongyloides is present, I would consider the patient to be at risk for quiescent infection and would administer empirical treatment, especially if the results of serologic testing are not available before the initiation of immunosuppression.

2525  
The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

Dr. David M. Dudzinski (Medicine): Dr. Keller, what was your impression when you evaluated this patient?

Dr. Sarah F. Keller (Medicine): Our differential diagnosis was centered on vasculitis. Giant-cell arteritis had initially been considered, and biopsies of the bilateral temporal arteries had been performed early during the hospitalization. However, complex diseases often have a dynamic course, and polyarteritis nodosa was eventually considered to be the most likely clinical diagnosis, given the recurrence and subsequent prominence of testicular pain. A testicular biopsy was performed.