# Presentation Of Case

Ms. Sarah J. Grzybinski (Emergency Medicine): A 36-year-old man was admitted to this hospital because of episodes of altered mental status.

The patient had been well until 6 years before admission, when his wife observed an episode of unusual behavior. During the episode, the patient was found wandering through his home, confused about where he was. He had nonsensical speech and nonpurposeful movements of the arms, and he described having blurry vision. The patient's wife noted that he appeared to be aware that his speech was nonsensical. The patient returned to his normal baseline mental status after 30 minutes. He was not able to recall the details of the episode and did not seek medical care.

Two years before admission, the patient began to have similar episodes one or two times per year. Four months before admission, the episodes became more frequent, occurring one or two times per month. The episodes most often occurred at night after the patient had consumed alcohol. Despite decreasing his alcohol intake from five to six beers several times per week to two to four beers several times per week, he continued to have intermittent periods of altered mental status and nonsensical speech. He attributed the episodes to stress and did not seek medical care.

One day before admission, the patient's wife noted that the patient was "not himself" when he became uncharacteristically upset after learning, while he and his wife were out to dinner, that one of their daughters had had nausea, vomiting, and fever at home. He again had nonsensical speech, along with nonpurposeful jerking movements of his hands. These symptoms diminished after he ate the meal. After the symptoms resolved, the patient noted that he had eaten very little during the day.

On the day of admission, the patient vomited early in the morning. Afterward, he appeared diaphoretic, was intermittently confused during the day, and had symptoms similar to those of previous episodes. In the afternoon, he had a telephone conversation with a friend during which he was speaking nonsensically, and the friend became concerned. After speaking with the patient's wife, the friend brought the patient to the emergency department of this hospital for evaluation.

From the Departments of Medicine (D.J.W., D.G.F.), Emergency Medicine (W.M.-K.), Radiology (L.X.), Surgery (C.E.C.), and Pathology (K.J.P.), Massachusetts General Hospital, and the Departments of Medicine (D.J.W., D.G.F.), Emergency Medicine (W.M.-K.), Radiology (L.X.), Surgery (C.E.C.), and Pathology (K.J.P.), Harvard Medical School — both in Boston. 

N Engl J Med 2018;379:376-85. DOI: 10.1056/NEJMcpc1802828  
Copyright © 2018 Massachusetts Medical Society.

376  
The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

In the emergency department, the patient reported no headaches, numbness, tingling, paralysis, gait changes, weakness, or incontinence. He had no tongue biting, fevers, chills, weight loss, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dysuria, shortness of breath, or chest pain. Thirteen years before admission, he had received a diagnosis of eosinophilic esophagitis, which had been complicated by multiple episodes of food impaction that necessitated esophageal dilation. Eleven years before admission, he had undergone sternotomy and laparotomy for repair of an inferior vena cava injury after he had received an abdominal stab wound. The patient took no medications and had no known allergies. He lived with his wife and two young children and worked as a firefighter. He drank two to four beers twice weekly and had quit smoking tobacco 14 years before this presentation. He did not use illicit drugs. His two paternal uncles had alcohol-use disorder. His father had melanoma, his mother had an arteriovenous malformation involving the central nervous system, and a younger brother had lung cancer. There was no family history of heart, pancreatic, or autoimmune disease, and no one in the patient's home used insulin or other diabetes medications.

On examination, the temperature was 36.5°C, the blood pressure 135/85 mm Hg, the heart rate 103 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 16 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 98% while the patient was breathing ambient air. The weight was 69 kg, and the body-mass index (BMI; the weight in kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters) 22.5. Seven months before admission, the weight had been 70 kg. The patient was confused and agitated, rocking back and forth. He intermittently placed his head between the side rails of his stretcher. He was oriented to person and place and knew the name of the president but did not know the date. Attention, concentration, abstract reasoning, and memory were poor. The patient was unable to calculate the number of quarters (a coin worth 25 cents) in $2.25 but could calculate the number of quarters in $1.00. Asterixis and vertical nystagmus were present; the remainder of the neurologic and general examination was normal.

In the emergency department, the blood glucose level was 38 mg per deciliter (2.1 mmol per liter; reference range, 70 to 110 mg per deciliter [3.9 to 6.1 mmol per liter]). A complete blood count and levels of electrolytes, thyrotropin, and creatine kinase were normal, as were results of liver- and renal-function tests. Serum and urine toxicology screening tests were negative. The C-reactive protein level was 48 mg per liter (reference range, <8.0), and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 38 mm per hour (reference range, 0 to 20). Ninety minutes after the initial blood glucose level was obtained, the glucose level, obtained by fingerstick testing, was 20 mg per deciliter (1.1 mmol per liter). A bolus containing a solution of 20% dextrose in water was administered intravenously. The glucose level, obtained by fingerstick testing, rose to 257 mg per deciliter (14.3 mmol per liter), and the patient was no longer confused or agitated. On a repeat neurologic examination, the mental-status examination was normal. Urinalysis performed after the administration of glucose revealed 3+ glucose and 1+ ketones and was otherwise normal. Diagnostic tests were performed.
