## Falls in Patients with Nutritional Deficiencies

When the patient returned to the clinic 4 months after the initial fall, he reported falling multiple times, with injuries, and had rented a wheelchair to safely negotiate his activities of daily living. His primary care physician performed a detailed neurologic examination that revealed weakness on hip flexion and hip extension and changes in sensation and proprioception. These findings raised concerns about subacute combined degeneration related to a nutritional deficiency, such as vitamin B12 deficiency. The patient was at high risk for nutritional deficiencies resulting from both decreased intake of vitamins and minerals due to alcohol use and decreased absorption because of previous gastric bypass. He reported taking prescribed vitamin B12 and vitamin D supplements daily, with normal levels of those vitamins. However, he was not taking the daily multivitamin recommended after bariatric surgery, leading to potential other nutritional deficiencies. Copper deficiency after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass is increasingly recognized as a cause of myeloneuropathy similar to vitamin B12 deficiency.

The patient was at risk for deficiencies in all B vitamins. Still, he reported adhering to thiamine supplementation and showed no evidence of encephalopathy, as indicated by his decision to rent a wheelchair, suggesting high executive functioning. He was not taking folic acid supplements. Isolated folic acid deficiency is an underappreciated cause of a slowly progressive, sensory-dominant peripheral neuropathy. Laboratory testing on admission ruled out other causes of peripheral neuropathy, such as diabetes, neurosyphilis, HIV infection, and Lyme disease. The creatine kinase level was normal, ruling out a purely myopathic process.

The patient's normal deep-tendon reflexes were surprising because this finding argues against most peripheral neuropathy causes. It is possible that his reflexes appeared normal due to the concomitant presence of peripheral neuropathy (from alcohol use or folate deficiency) and subacute combined degeneration (due to copper or vitamin B12 deficiency). In patients with alcohol-use disorder, common nutritional deficiencies are in folic acid, thiamine, and vitamin B6.

Within 2 days after initiating vitamin supplementation, with no other intervention, the patient could stand without assistance, and his fatigue and strength improved dramatically. There is only one cause of slowly progressive fatigue on exertion and weakness that responds so quickly to vitamin supplementation: scurvy, caused by vitamin C (ascorbic acid) deficiency.