## Cardiac Imaging Studies and Discussion of Management

Dr. Meyersohn: Cardiac MRI with electrocardiographic gating was performed on hospital day 3. Two masses were located along the right atrioventricular groove that were associated with the aortocoronary saphenous-vein graft to the posterior descending artery. These masses were determined to be two aneurysmal segments of the underlying graft.

The superior aneurysmal segment was anterior to the anterior free wall of the right ventricle and measured 4.4 cm in greatest dimension. The inferior aneurysmal segment was at the diaphragmatic surface and measured 4.0 cm in greatest dimension. Both aneurysmal segments caused mass effect, resulting in compression of the right atrioventricular groove, tricuspid annulus, and right ventricle. There were extensive filling defects in both aneurysmal cavities. On T1-weighted and T2-weighted images, obtained both before and after the administration of gadolinium-based contrast material, the aneurysmal cavities showed heterogeneous signal intensity, a finding consistent with thrombus and the presence of blood products of varying ages.

Magnetic resonance angiography was performed after the administration of gadolinium-based contrast material to assess the patency of the graft. A patent lumen was maintained throughout the aneurysmal segments; the lumen was up to 17 mm wide in the proximal aneurysm (superior segment) and up to 21 mm wide in the distal aneurysm (inferior segment). There was patent vessel runoff from the graft to the posterior descending artery, as well as impaired diastolic filling caused by compression from the aneurysm.

Dr. Hucker: After MRI revealed aneurysmal dilatation of the saphenous-vein graft in two separate locations, the cardiac surgical service was consulted to discuss resection. For surgical planning, cardiac catheterization was performed to visualize the posterior descending artery. There was poor flow from the aneurysmal graft into the posterior descending artery, but the graft was patent.

Dr. Dudzinski: After CABG, mild dilatation of a saphenous-vein graft is common, but saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm appears to be rare. The true incidence of saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm is unknown, because routine screening is not performed and the condition can be clinically silent. Mechanisms of the formation of saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm late after CABG include atherosclerotic degeneration, vessel-wall ischemia (i.e., disruption of the vasa vasorum at the time of harvest), and wall stress due to increased luminal pressure that occurs when a venous structure is ligated into the pulsatile arterial system. Saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm may occur at sites of anastomoses and also at sites of venous valves owing to reduced circular smooth muscle. In this patient, the two aneurysmal segments might correlate with the proximal and distal anastomoses of the graft. Because the patient had varicose veins on examination, it is possible that a latent venopathy also contributed to the aneurysm, although varicose veins are much more common in the general adult population than is saphenous-vein–graft aneurysm.
