Dr. Duane S. Pinto: Coronary angiography can be used to determine whether revascularization is indicated, but there are additional considerations in a critically ill patient with confirmed or suspected Covid-19. First, it is important for clinicians to maintain a high index of suspicion for diseases such as myopericarditis or stress-induced cardiomyopathy that can produce ST-segment elevation. Second, even when STEMI is suspected, physicians must weigh the potential benefit of emergency revascularization against the risks of invasive procedures in a patient with a competing critical illness such as Covid-19.

In patients with Covid-19 who have suspected STEMI, the reperfusion strategy should be tailored to the individual patient. During the Covid-19 outbreak in Hong Kong, the median time from the onset of symptoms to presentation increased from approximately 80 minutes to 320 minutes among patients with STEMI, a finding that implied that patients were avoiding the hospital, which possibly resulted in a reduced amount of myocardium that could be salvaged. Medical management, with avoidance of procedural and bleeding risks, may be acceptable in patients with severe SARS-CoV-2 infection, particularly if the patient's condition is stable and the infarction is small.

Primary percutaneous coronary intervention is preferred over fibrinolysis if a substantial amount of myocardium can be salvaged and resources can be mobilized rapidly. If prolonged delays are anticipated because resources have been exhausted and the catheterization laboratory is unavailable, fibrinolytic therapy may become necessary. It is important to consider that the prevalence of myopericarditis is probably higher among patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection than in the general population. Given the increased prevalence of STEMI mimics, any risk of intracranial hemorrhage with fibrinolysis is unnecessary, even a risk as small as approximately 1%. Routine fibrinolysis is also unlikely to reduce resource utilization, staff exposure, or the length of stay and often necessitates the use of scarce ICU resources. Coronary angiography in combination with strategies to avoid nosocomial infection is the preferred option for ambiguous cases and may also be warranted in situations in which attempted fibrinolysis has failed.