Dr. Kevin J. Clerkin: Management of suspected myopericarditis with ventricular dysfunction in a critically ill patient with Covid-19 consists of primarily supportive care. However, there are a number of promising - albeit unproven - therapies, which can be categorized into two groups: those targeting SARS-CoV-2 and those targeting inflammation.

Remdesivir, a broad-spectrum antiviral agent that interrupts viral replication by acting as a nucleotide analogue, was suggested to have possible clinical benefit in a recent uncontrolled trial and on the basis of preliminary results of a phase 3 clinical trial; it is currently also being evaluated in other phase 3 clinical trials (ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT04292899 and NCT04292730). Hydroxychloroquine has received considerable attention, given that it blocks entry of SARS-CoV-2 into cells in vitro; small, preliminary studies suggest clinical efficacy when the drug is used in combination with azithromycin. At my institution, we initially administered this empirical combination frequently and then switched to hydroxychloroquine alone to treat patients with Covid-19 who did not have QTc prolongation (i.e., a QTc interval of <500 msec for patients with a QRS duration of ≤120 msec and a QTc interval of <550 msec for others). As a result of our observations, we have stopped routinely using hydroxychloroquine. The combination protease inhibitor lopinavir–ritonavir also shows efficacy in vitro, but a randomized trial did not show a significant benefit among hospitalized patients with Covid-19. Investigational antiviral strategies include recombinant human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2, convalescent serum (on the basis of an initial small report suggesting efficacy in patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection), and intravenous immune globulin.

Therapies targeting inflammation and cytokine release include anti–interleukin-6 therapy. Tocilizumab, a humanized murine interleukin-6 receptor antagonist that has been recommended in Chinese guidelines, and sarilumab, a human interleukin-6 receptor antagonist, are being studied in clinical trials. Glucocorticoids have been used in critically ill patients with Covid-19 but are not routinely recommended because of the possibility of worsening lung disease in patients who also have ARDS and because they have been associated with delayed clearance of SARS-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) RNA. The effectiveness and most appropriate timing of these therapies is uncertain. Similarly, the role of angiotensin-receptor blockers remains unknown but is being actively investigated in two trials of losartan (ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT04311177 and NCT04312009) and other trials.