Dr. Kazi: In line with the clinical practice at our institution at that time, we initiated empirical treatment with hydroxychloroquine and intravenous immune globulin. Azithromycin was not administered because of concern about the patient's prolonged QTc interval. Statin therapy was deferred, owing to the patient's previous adverse drug reaction. He received supportive therapy with a restrictive fluid strategy, and the electrolyte balance was monitored closely, given his ongoing treatment with hydroxychloroquine.

Dr. Martin: Serial electrocardiograms were obtained to monitor the QTc interval while the patient was receiving hydroxychloroquine therapy. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response was noted on the third day, with ST-segment elevations of 1 mm in leads I and aVL. The QTc interval was approximately 475 msec (Fig. 2C). Amiodarone was administered intravenously. The troponin T level was 5.97 ng per milliliter.

Dr. Peter J. Zimetbaum: Electrocardiograms obtained during the first 3 days of this patient's hospitalization at the academic health center showed serial prolongation of the QT interval. Broad and inverted T waves with QT prolongation in this context can be due to an underlying myopericarditis or the use of medications that can lead to QT prolongation. Other causes of QT prolongation to be considered in critically ill patients include ischemia and electrolyte abnormalities, but the levels of sodium, potassium, and magnesium were normal.

Since both hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin can prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of torsades de pointes, it is important that patients receiving these agents undergo monitoring of the QTc interval every 6 to 8 hours if the interval is 500 msec or longer, or once daily otherwise. Although 12-lead electrocardiography is the standard of care for assessment of the QTc interval, we try to minimize repeated use in patients with Covid-19 to prevent exposure of health care providers to SARS-CoV-2. We typically obtain a baseline electrocardiogram before initiation of agents known to cause QT prolongation and then rely on standard telemetry to monitor the patients. In the event that the rapidly increasing admissions for suspected or confirmed Covid-19 outstrip institutional capacity for telemetric monitoring, our contingency plan is to use ambulatory monitoring devices with continuous real-time telemetry.