In this patient, who previously had had a radiofrequency ablation for atrial flutter, the occurrence of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was probably a result of stress from critical illness, hypoxemia, and infection. Other forms of myopericarditis increase the risk of atrial tachyarrhythmias, ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and conduction abnormalities. Such arrhythmias have been described in patients with Covid-19, but clinical trials are urgently needed to examine the nature, incidence, and prognosis of arrhythmias associated with Covid-19.

The choice of intravenous amiodarone for the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was reasonable, given the relative safety of this drug in the context of acute illness. The occurrence of pulmonary toxic effects associated with amiodarone would be a devastating complication in any patient with hypoxemic respiratory failure, but it is an extremely rare complication of treatment and seldom occurs during the first few weeks of therapy. Preexisting lung disease does not increase the likelihood of pulmonary toxic effects resulting from the use of amiodarone. Of note, treatment with amiodarone produces QT prolongation; however, torsades de pointes arrhythmias resulting from the use of amiodarone are rare.

Dr. Kazi: We monitored the QTc interval every 8 hours while the patient was receiving both hydroxychloroquine and amiodarone. Since evidence supporting the use of hydroxychloroquine in the management of Covid-19 was very limited, the patient's prolonged QTc interval prompted us to discontinue treatment with hydroxychloroquine in favor of amiodarone, which we continued in an effort to maintain sinus rhythm.

Dr. Martin: An electrocardiogram obtained on hospital day 7 (Fig. 2D) showed normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 82 beats per minute. The ST-segment elevations in the lateral leads were no longer as prominent, but there was a regional T-wave inversion and a reduction in R-wave voltage in lead aVL, findings that could be consistent with transmural necrosis. The troponin T level declined to 2.72 ng per milliliter. Chest radiography revealed a radiographically substantial decrease in bilateral opacities.

The patient's clinical course was complicated by progressive renal failure, for which he underwent intermittent hemodialysis, as well as metabolic encephalopathy. Subsequently, a high-grade fever and leukocytosis (predominantly neutrophilic) developed, and there was concern about a secondary bacterial infection. He was receiving escalating pressor support and had rising lactate levels, despite broad-spectrum antibiotic coverage for ventilator-assisted pneumonia. The troponin T level further decreased to 0.71 ng per milliliter; a repeat transthoracic echocardiogram showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of 70%, with unchanged mild symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy. After discussion with the patient's family, he was transitioned to comfort measures only. He died on hospital day 18. No postmortem examination was performed.

Dr. Kazi: During the course of the Covid-19 pandemic, providers have often been compelled to make clinical decisions on the basis of imperfect information. The changing practice patterns regarding the empirical use of hydroxychloroquine illustrate the need to update clinical practice in response to emerging evidence, as in this case.

Dr. David M. Dudzinski: Available reports from China, Italy, New York, and the state of Washington document heterogeneous cardiac manifestations associated with Covid-19. These include biomarker evidence of myocardial necrosis, ventricular dysfunction, pericardial effusion, dysrhythmia, and cardiogenic shock. These conditions appear to occur in patients with severe respiratory dysfunction, although there are early reports of isolated cardiac manifestations from SARS-CoV-2 infection. Cardiac manifestations may be related to indirect effects of SARS-CoV-2 on the heart, mediated through catecholaminergic tone, dysregulated coagulation with a prothrombotic state and possible microvascular obstruction, hypoxemia and tissue hypoxia, and a proinflammatory cytokine milieu. Direct cytotoxic effects of the virus on myocardium may be another potential mechanism.

Knowledge, and proof, of myopericarditis - an inflammatory cellular infiltrate in the myocardium that may be accompanied by necrosis - due to coronaviruses remains limited. Autopsy data from 20 patients who died during the SARS outbreak in 2003 identified viral RNA in the hearts of 7 of the patients. A previous report described a patient in whom acute myopericarditis had developed due to infection with MERS-CoV; the diagnosis was based on cardiac MRI evidence of myocardial edema and regional late gadolinium enhancement in the left ventricle. Two reports of patients with Covid-19 who presented with ST-segment elevations, an elevated troponin T level, and hypotension described increased ventricular wall thickness, with subsequent reductions in ventricular wall thickness temporally concurrent with overall recovery, ostensibly reflecting a reduction in myocardial edema and inflammation. Normalization of cardiac dilatation, which suggests reversal of an acute cardiac process, has been reported.

Access to contemporary tools used for the assessment and diagnosis of myopericarditis - endomyocardial biopsy in certain clinical scenarios and cardiac MRI to assess for imaging evidence of myocardial inflammation - has been a logistic challenge during the Covid-19 pandemic (although MRI was performed in one of the two patients with Covid-19 described above). Cardiologists, intensivists, hospitalists, emergency physicians, and other health care providers should contemplate a broad differential diagnosis for acute cardiac dysfunction, including entities such as cardiac ischemia, stress-induced cardiomyopathy, and sepsis-induced cardiomyopathy. Guideline-based treatment for cardiomyopathy and supportive intensive care interventions should also be provided while attempting to enroll patients in clinical trials of investigational treatments.