Dr. Lila M. Martin: A 73-year-old man was transferred to the intensive care unit 
(ICU) of an academic health center in Boston for acute hypoxemic respiratory failure in March 2020, during the pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19), the disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).

The patient had been in his usual state of health until 6 days before this transfer, when a dry cough, fever, and worsening fatigue developed. Two days later, his symptoms had not resolved, and he presented to the emergency department at a local hospital. The temperature was 38.8°C, the blood pressure 94/62 mm Hg, the heart rate 91 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 12 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 97% while he was breathing ambient air. On examination, he appeared well, and the lung sounds were clear. The white-cell count was 5600 per microliter (reference range, 4800 to 10,500); 56% of the cells were neutrophils and 33% were lymphocytes. A nasopharyngeal swab was submitted to the Massachusetts State Laboratory for nucleic acid testing for SARS-CoV-2 RNA. Tests for influenza A and B viruses and respiratory syncytial virus were not performed owing to a statewide shortage of nasopharyngeal swabs.

Dr. Diana Litmanovich: Computed tomography (CT) of the chest, performed without the administration of intravenous contrast material, revealed small (1 to 1.5 cm in diameter), rounded central and peripheral ground-glass opacities in both lungs (Fig. 1A).

Dr. Martin: Oseltamivir was prescribed for the empirical treatment of influenza, and the patient was discharged from the emergency department and instructed to self-quarantine at home. During the next 4 days, his symptoms persisted; when dyspnea developed, he contacted his primary care physician and was referred back to the emergency department at the local hospital. The temperature was 38.6°C, the blood pressure 158/91 mm Hg, the heart rate 108 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 28 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 90% while he was breathing ambient air. He appeared fatigued, tachypneic, and distressed; auscultation of the lungs revealed decreased breath sounds bilaterally. The trachea was intubated, and mechanical ventilation was initiated. Intravenous propofol, cisatracurium, cefepime, and norepinephrine were administered, and the patient was transferred by helicopter to an academic health center in Boston for further evaluation and management of symptoms.

On the patient's arrival at the academic health center, his family was available to provide information regarding medical history, surgical history, and a recent review of systems by telephone. The review of systems was negative for conjunctivitis, nasal congestion, sinusitis, anosmia, abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea, light-headedness, dizziness, chest pain, and edema. The patient's status with respect to influenza and pneumococcal vaccination was unknown. His medical history was notable for hypertension, diabetes mellitus, atrial fibrillation, and obstructive sleep apnea, for which nightly continuous positive airway pressure had been prescribed. He had undergone surgical aortic-valve replacement for severe symptomatic aortic stenosis 1 year earlier; there had been no evidence of obstructive coronary artery disease on preoperative angiography. Radiofrequency ablation for recurrent atrial flutter had been performed 2 years earlier, and he had undergone right shoulder arthroplasty. Medications included metformin, insulin lispro, atenolol, losartan, and apixaban. Multiple statin medications had previously caused myalgia with elevated creatine kinase levels.

The patient was a health care worker but had no known sick contacts. No family members were ill. He had not traveled recently or had other environmental exposures. He did not use tobacco, drink alcohol, or use illicit substances. His family history was notable for coronary artery disease in multiple relatives; there was no history of pulmonary disease.

The patient was admitted to a dedicated Covid-19 ICU at the academic health center. The temperature was 38.9°C, the blood pressure 100/60 mm Hg while he was receiving intravenous norepinephrine, the heart rate 112 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 25 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 95% while he was receiving oxygen through a mechanical ventilator (positive end-expiratory pressure, 5 cm of water; tidal volume, 410 ml; fraction of inspired oxygen, 1.0). The patient was sedated. There was no jugular venous distention. Auscultation of the chest revealed a tachycardic rhythm with no murmur and coarse breath sounds with rhonchi in both lungs. His arms and legs were cool and clammy. The remainder of the examination was normal.
