Dr. Gombolay: On the eighth hospital day, results of the assays performed at the reference laboratory returned positive for the detection of anti–NMDA receptor antibodies in serum and CSF specimens. These findings confirmed the diagnosis of anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis.
Anti–NMDA receptor antibodies were first identified in 2007 in patients who presented with new- onset psychosis, seizures, and autonomic dysfunction and had a response to immunotherapy. Among patients younger than 18 years of age, the most common manifestations of anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis include behavioral changes and seizures. Among children younger than 12 years of age, movement disorders are common. All these findings were seen in this patient. Among adults with anti–NMDA receptor enceph- alitis, the most prevalent findings are behavioral changes, seizures, cognitive dysfunction, and memory problems; movement disorders are seen less frequently in adults than in children.6
Anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis can be associated with tumors, but tumor-associated disease is uncommon in young children.8 Moreover, 94% of patients with tumor-associated anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis are female, and no cases of tumor-associated disease have been reported in boys.6 In this patient, imaging studies that were performed to evaluate for the presence of a tu- mor — including ultrasonography of the thyroid and scrotum and MRI of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis — were all negative.
First-line treatment for anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis is intravenous glucocorticoids, intra- venous immune globulin (IVIG), or plasma ex- change. If a tumor is identified, surgical resection is also considered. In this patient, once the labo- ratory diagnosis had been confirmed, a 5-day course of IVIG was begun.
Dr. Pierce: Dr. Thibert, would you tell us what happened next?

Dr. Ronald L. Thibert: After the seizure occurred on the fifth hospital day, prompting transfer of the patient to the pediatric ICU, levetiracetam was administered and repeat MRI of the head was performed.
Dr. William A. Mehan, Jr.: Diffusion-weighted images and apparent-diffusion-coefficient maps showed symmetric restricted diffusion involving the cortex and subcortical white matter of the posterior cerebral hemispheres, and FLAIR images showed hyperintensity (Fig. 1A, 1B, and 1C). The imaging-based differential diagnosis includ- ed excitotoxic injury and encephalitis.
Dr. Thibert: Opisthotonic posturing and stereotyped movements of the mouth and arms con- tinued, but these events were not epileptic. EEG continued to show slowing of the background with some asymmetry, but there was no clear epileptiform activity. The patient was treated with methyl- prednisolone and then IVIG; there was minimal clinical improvement. On the 12th hospital day, on completion of the 5-day course of IVIG, repeat MRI of the head was performed.
Dr. Mehan: The images showed new hyperin- tense signal and symmetric restricted diffusion involving the bilateral deep gray nuclei, with ad- ditional patchy areas of hyperintense signal in the subcortical white matter of the cerebral hemi- spheres (Fig. 1D, 1E, and 1F). These findings are consistent with the diagnosis of anti–NMDA re- ceptor encephalitis.
Dr. Thibert: On the 13th hospital day, the patient had two more witnessed seizures. The dose of levetiracetam was increased, and a decision was made to begin weekly treatment with ritux- imab, given the severity of the patient’s symptoms and the minimal response to first-line therapies. A second 5-day course of IVIG was also initiated.
On the 16th hospital day, episodes of staring and eye fluttering occurred. Long-term EEG moni- toring was initiated, and it revealed status epilep- ticus. A continuous infusion of intravenous mid- azolam was begun, and the dose of levetiracetam was again increased. The status epilepticus re- solved, and the patient began to have electro- clinical seizures that arose from the right hemi- sphere and then quickly generalized. Clobazam and valproic acid were added to the antiepileptic treatment regimen, and weekly doses of ritux- imab were continued.
On the 22nd hospital day, status epilepticus recurred; fosphenytoin therapy and a continuous infusion of pentobarbital were begun. The status epilepticus waxed and waned during the next 4 days. On the 27th hospital day, a ketogenic diet was started, and the next day, a continuous infu- sion of ketamine was begun. The fosphenytoin, clobazam, and valproic acid were stopped. By the 29th hospital day, the findings on EEG had im- proved markedly, with only occasional epilepti- form activity.
Over the next several days, the dose of pentobarbital was gradually tapered, and the EEG find- ings worsened. By the 33rd hospital day, seizures originating in the right central region with gener- alization had recurred. Pentobarbital therapy was restarted, and the dose of midazolam was increased. The seizures resolved, and the dose of midazolam was gradually tapered. On the 40th hospital day, EEG showed runs of high-voltage sharp activity that appeared to be on the ictal– interictal spectrum. The pattern of seizure activity throughout the hospital course suggested that clinical worsening occurred just before each week- ly rituximab treatment; therefore, a 7-day course of intravenous methylprednisolone was administered, followed by a prolonged tapering course of gluco- corticoids. The ketogenic diet was stopped, both because its efficacy was uncertain and because the efficacy would decrease owing to hyperglycemia caused by the glucocorticoids. Ultimately, the doses of pentobarbital, ketamine, and midazolam were gradually reduced, without recurrence of sei- zures.
In addition to treatment-refractory seizures, the patient’s clinical course was complicated by autonomic symptoms, diabetes insipidus, the syn- drome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone se- cretion, hypertriglyceridemia, and transient hypothyroidism. As part of the supportive care provided during the hospitalization, gastrostomy and tra-cheostomy tubes were placed. The patient was discharged to an inpatient rehabilitation facility after 3 months. He spent an additional 2 months at the rehabilitation facility. The gastrostomy and tracheostomy tubes were removed before he was discharged home.
On follow-up in the pediatric neurology clinic approximately 6 months after the first presen- tation, the patient’s movement disorder had re- solved. His gross motor skills were close to their baseline (pre-illness) level, and his fine motor skills were approaching their baseline level. He had some difficulties with sleep and hyperactiv- ity and his speech was further delayed, but he was making progress in those areas.
Dr. Pierce: The results of MRI of the head performed on this patient’s first presentation to the hospital had been normal. Dr. Mehan, are normal results on MRI common among patients with anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis?

Dr. Mehan: Results on MRI of the head are reportedly normal in half of patients with anti– NMDA receptor encephalitis. In the other half, T2-weighted FLAIR images may reveal signal hyperintensity involving the hippocampi, cerebral or cerebellar cortex, basal ganglia, brain stem, and spinal cord, findings that were seen later in this patient’s course.9 Contrast enhance- ment and restricted diffusion in the involved areas are less commonly encountered. Brain atrophy may also be seen and is often reversible.
