## HHV-6 Infection

Could this patient have had acute primary or reactivated HHV-6 infection? As an infection that commonly occurs during childhood, primary HHV-6 infection rarely occurs in adults and is often manifested by a mononucleosis-like syndrome. The patient's contact with his partner's sick grandchild provides an appropriate risk of exposure to infection, and HHV-6 infection could theoretically explain the weakly positive heterophile antibody test, since EBV and HHV-6 are closely related viruses. No laboratory tests are available to rule out this diagnosis.

It is unclear whether HHV-6 infection can act as a trigger for the DRESS syndrome in the context of a possible drug exposure. Both primary and reactivated HHV-6 infections have been associated with the DRESS syndrome, with the hypothesis that viral replication leads to preferential activation and expansion of drug-specific CD4+ helper T cells and cytotoxic CD8+ T cells. Although this hypothesis is relatively controversial, it offers a theoretical connection between HHV-6 infection and the DRESS syndrome and thus provides a potential unifying explanation of this patient's clinical presentation.

I think the most likely diagnosis in this case is the DRESS syndrome triggered by an unknown drug exposure in the context of HHV-6 infection. It is unclear whether this patient acquired acute HHV-6 infection from contact with a sick young child or whether he had reactivation of infection. I would recommend obtaining an HHV-6 DNA level and HHV-6 IgM and IgG antibody titers from the peripheral blood.

Dr. Tsiaras: This patient's clinical presentation was consistent with a diagnosis of the DRESS syndrome. The specific causative drug in this case is not clear. The patient reported that treatment with a new analgesic medication had been initiated approximately 2 weeks before the onset of symptoms. This latency period between drug exposure and the onset of symptoms is compatible with the DRESS syndrome due to new analgesic medications. The DRESS syndrome is associated with reactivation of human herpesviruses, especially HHV-6, in the majority of cases. For this reason, it was recommended that the patient be evaluated for HHV-6 infection.