Dr. Fenves: Once the diagnosis of anti-GBM dis- ease was established, we treated this patient with intravenous methylprednisolone for 3 consecutive days and oral cyclophosphamide daily for 5 days, followed by a taper. There was no evidence of pulmonary hemorrhage, but this possibility prompted us to proceed with five sessions of plasmapheresis during the 10 days after the kid- ney biopsy.
Anaerobic blood cultures from the other hos- pital grew three organisms: B. fragilis, F. necropho-rum, and Peptoniphilus indolicus. The bacterial infec- tions were successfully treated with intravenous ceftazidime and metronidazole. Subsequent blood cultures were negative.
Five days after the kidney biopsy, severe ab- dominal pain developed, along with a leukocyte count of more than 40,000 per cubic millimeter. CT of the abdomen revealed evidence of diverticu- litis with a small colonic perforation. The patient initially received conservative treatment but ulti- mately underwent a sigmoid colectomy and a colostomy. His immunosuppressive medications were withheld for 3 days during the periopera- tive period. Bilateral deep venous thrombosis de- veloped postoperatively and was treated with intravenous heparin.
During the 2 weeks after kidney biopsy, the patient had fluctuating renal function, with a serum creatinine level ranging from 2.3 to 3.2 mg per deciliter (203 to 283 μmol per liter). He never needed to undergo renal-replacement therapy.
The patient’s hospitalization lasted for more than 6 weeks. During that time, he had two episodes of wound dehiscence. The wounds were probably aggravated by ongoing glucocorticoid therapy, and they eventually healed by second intention. There was never any evidence of a pul- monary hemorrhage, a dreaded potential feature of anti-GBM disease that can lead to severe com- plications and occasionally to death. Toward the end of his hospital course, the patient received intravenous rituximab. His serum creatinine level at discharge was 2.0 mg per deciliter (177 μmol per liter).
Three months after discharge, the patient received a second dose of intravenous rituximab. Cyclophosphamide was stopped after 3 months, and prednisone was tapered over a 5-month pe- riod and then discontinued. The patient had a successful reversal of the colostomy 1 year later. Now, 16 months after he received the diagnosis of anti-GBM disease, he is doing well, with a serum creatinine level of 1.5 mg per deciliter (133 μmol per liter), and he is currently receiv- ing no immunosuppressive medications.
