Dr. Ivy A. Rosales: The diagnostic procedures in this case were a core needle biopsy of the kidney, a serum enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and Western blot analysis. Examination of the biopsy specimen revealed 21 glomeruli, of which 19% were globally sclerosed and 38% were cellular crescents (Fig. 2A and 2B). Seg- mental necrosis was present in some glomeruli. Red-cell casts (Fig. 2C), reabsorption droplets, and tubular injuries of varying degrees of sever- ity were also present. Approximately 30% of the cortex showed interstitial fibrosis and tu- bular atrophy. The blood vessels showed mild intimal fibrosis in arteries and arteriolar hyali- nosis. Altogether, these findings show evidence of a necrotizing and crescentic glomerulone- phritis.
On immunofluorescence microscopy of the glomeruli, the GBM showed bright, global, linear (4+) staining for IgG (Fig. 2D) and a similar pattern and intensity of staining for kappa and lambda. Crescents were positive for fibrin. The GBM showed 3+ to 4+ staining for IgG4, 2+ to 3+ staining for IgG1, and 1+ staining for IgG2. Staining for IgG3 was negative. On electron mi- croscopy, endothelium was reactive. There was global effacement of podocyte foot processes, a finding that accounted for the patient’s protein- uria. There were no electron-dense deposits (Fig. 2E). There was no evidence of diabetic ne- phropathy.
Serum ELISA for the detection and quantita- tion of antibodies to alpha-3(IV)NC1 was negative at less than 2 reference units per milliliter (positive result, ≥20). Western blot analysis for
the detection of antibodies to alpha-3(IV)NC1 was positive.

The findings are diagnostic of anti-GBM dis- ease but with several unusual features. First, the crescents and necrosis were not as prominent as they would be in a classic case of anti-GBM dis- ease, in which the crescents are diffuse, global, and circumferential, typically involving approxi- mately 75% of glomeruli.16,17 In this case, the crescents involved less than half the glomeruli and were small, suggesting subacute or transient disease.
Second, serum ELISA was negative for anti- GBM antibodies, whereas the more sensitive Western blot analysis was positive. False nega- tive tests occur in 2 to 3% of cases of anti-GBM disease.18 In this case, the negative ELISA sug- gests that the antibody titer was too low for detection.
Finally, this case showed an IgG4-dominant subclass distribution. IgG4 is considered to be in- ert and has a limited capacity to fix complement and Fc receptors. IgG4 dominance may have ac- counted for the lesser severity and extent of the glomerular lesions. IgG4 antibodies to alpha- 3(IV)NC1 can cause a false negative ELISA.19,20 In anti-GBM disease, IgG subclass distribution may be associated with disease severity.21
In summary, necrotizing and crescentic glo- merulonephritis associated with a positive West- ern blot analysis for antibodies to alpha-3(IV) NC1 is diagnostic of anti-GBM disease. The rela- tively modest extent and severity of glomerular lesions and the negative serum ELISA for anti- GBM antibodies are features that have been de- scribed in unusual presentations of anti-GBM disease.18,22
