## Rapidly Progressive Glomerulonephritis

Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis is the most likely diagnosis in this patient, and the workup would need to proceed quickly to prevent glomerular and interstitial scarring. Evaluation of the serum complement (C3 and C4) levels is very helpful in narrowing the differential diagnosis. Activation of the classic complement pathway, which reduces both the C4 level and the C3 level, suggests glomerular disease due to a process such as systemic lupus erythematosus or cryoglobulinemia. Activation of the alternative complement pathway, which results in a low C3 level and a normal C4 level, raises the possibility of a variety of infectious diseases and membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. In this case, the C3 and C4 levels were normal, suggesting that the declining kidney function was due to a process such as IgA nephropathy, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)–positive glomerulonephritis, or anti–glomerular basement membrane (GBM) disease (Goodpasture's syndrome).

This patient had several negative serologic tests, including tests specific for hepatitis B and C viruses, findings that decrease the likelihood of viral glomerulonephritis. A negative anti–double-stranded DNA test makes the diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus unlikely, and negative tests for antiproteinase 3 and antimyeloperoxidase antibodies, on two separate occasions, decrease the likelihood that ANCAs were driving the disease pathogenesis. There is no mention of serologic testing for anti-GBM antibodies.

With any diagnosis of glomerulonephritis, two separate yet intertwined questions should be asked. First, is the inflammatory condition limited to the kidney, or is it part of a systemic disease process? The presence of extrarenal manifestations aids in narrowing the differential diagnosis. For example, a patient could have a pulmonary–renal syndrome (e.g., ANCA-positive glomerulonephritis or anti-GBM disease) or crampy abdominal pain associated with IgA vasculitis of the bowel. In this case, crampy abdominal pain is the only extrarenal clue. Second, do extrarenal manifestations provide clues to the pathogenesis of the disease? In this case, the intersection of infection and kidney disease sharpens the focus.

#