## Infection

Could this patient have herpes zoster? Reactivation of latent varicella–zoster virus arises in the dorsal-root ganglia and spreads centrifugally to the skin along sensory nerves or vasa nervorum. Patients with herpes zoster often have severe dermatomal pain and sensory deficits; a segmental rash is common but not always present. In some cases, patients with herpes zoster have segmental weakness of the arms, legs, or thoracic-wall muscles. However, sensory herpes zoster usually presents with symptoms without a herpetic rash, but this is almost never the case with segmental zoster paresis. In addition, the disease typically affects only one or very few segments.

Patients who have Lyme meningoradiculitis typically present 2 to 18 weeks after infection, during the early disseminated phase, with pain, sensory loss, and areflexic weakness. Over half of patients with Lyme meningoradiculitis present with seventh cranial nerve palsy — a manifestation of Lyme disease that many recognize — but any cranial or spinal nerve root may be involved. Several clues in this patient's history point us toward this diagnosis. She was living in a wooded area in a region where Lyme disease is endemic, presented in early autumn, and about 3 months before, had a small, uniformly erythematous, painless, nonpruritic rash that was consistent with erythema migrans, the hallmark skin lesion of early Lyme disease. Although the classic rash of Lyme disease is described as having an area of central clearing (bull's eye), it often does not. The location of the patient’s rash on the left gluteal fold is a common site of tick bites. Given the seasonal timing of this patient's presentation, the history of a rash consistent with erythema migrans, and her clinical syndrome of polyradiculopathy, it was suspected that this patient had Lyme meningoradiculitis in the context of early disseminated Lyme disease. The next step in the diagnosis would be serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis for antibodies against *Borrelia burgdorferi*.

Dr. Meridale V. Baggett (Medicine): Dr. Misra, what was your clinical impression when you evaluated this patient, and how did you pursue a diagnosis?

Dr. Misra: We thought this patient's presentation was most consistent with an infectious polyradiculopathy; her recent rash and associated risk factors for Lyme disease made Lyme radiculopathy our leading diagnosis. A lumbar puncture was performed, and CSF analysis revealed a glucose level of 115 mg per deciliter (6.4 mmol per liter; reference range, 50 to 75 mg per deciliter [2.8 to 4.2 mmol per liter]), a total protein level of 128 mg per deciliter (reference range, 5 to 55), and a nucleated-cell count of 46 per cubic millimeter (reference range, 0 to 5). CSF and serum serologic testing for Lyme disease were requested to establish the diagnosis.