## Pathological Discussion

Dr. John A. Branda: The laboratory tests performed to support the diagnosis were serum antibody tests for Lyme borreliosis. A first-tier enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was reactive, leading to second-tier IgM and IgG immunoblot assays. The serum IgM immunoblot assay showed 1 of 3 specific bands (the 39-kDa band), which is a negative outcome according to CDC criteria. The serum IgG immunoblot assay showed 9 of 10 specific bands, which is positive according to CDC criteria. The tests indicated an expanded *B. burgdorferi* antibody response with a switch of immunoglobulin class from IgM to IgG, consistent with *B. burgdorferi* infection of at least 1 or 2 months' duration, correlating with the patient's clinical history. In addition to serum antibody testing, CSF IgM and IgG immunoblot assays for *B. burgdorferi* and CSF PCR assays for *B. burgdorferi*, *B. mayonii*, *B. garinii*, and *B. afzelii* were performed.

When a patient is seropositive and has a characteristic clinical syndrome for Lyme neuroborreliosis, CSF tests for Lyme disease are unnecessary for diagnosis. When Lyme neuroborreliosis with central nervous system involvement is suspected, detection of intrathecal *B. burgdorferi* antibody production can support the diagnosis, but its absence does not rule it out. The best method for detecting intrathecal *B. burgdorferi* antibody production is the CSF–serum antibody index with quantitative ELISAs or similar assays, not immunoblot assays. Substantial differences between serum and CSF immunoblot assays are not reliably present when there is intrathecal *B. burgdorferi* antibody production. In this patient, the CSF IgG immunoblot assay showed 5 specific bands, and the CSF IgM immunoblot assay showed no bands. Although more bands were present on the respective serum immunoblot assays, the differences do not refute intrathecal antibody production and are noncontributory. Direct detection of the infectious agent with CSF PCR assays is usually not possible. CSF PCR assays for Lyme-related borrelia are not recommended, and a negative assay (which was present here) does not impact diagnostic considerations due to poor sensitivity. Based on the patient's clinical features and seroreactivity, the final diagnosis was Lyme meningoradiculitis.