## Discussion Of Management

Dr. Sanborn: Once a diagnosis of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis is made, prompt treatment of the underlying condition is instituted, since the goal of therapy is to halt the process that is driving immune-mediated valvular deposition. Systemic anticoagulation is recommended to prevent thromboembolism, but it should be noted that, until the underlying process that is driving the immune-mediated valvular deposition is corrected, new vegetations often form despite therapeutic anticoagulation. The anticoagulant of choice is usually unfractionated or low-molecular-weight heparin rather than warfarin, since recurrent thromboembolism can occur in patients with cancer-associated nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis who are receiving warfarin. Despite the potential for the development of a large vegetative burden, the degree of valvular incompetence in patients with nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis is often not severe and may even be within the normal range (trace or mild). For this reason, surgery (valvular débridement or excision) is rarely indicated, but it may be considered in cases in which the risk–benefit ratio and life expectancy are favorable, with the goal of either preventing recurrent embolization or treating heart failure or severe valvular incompetence.

Dr. David M. Dudzinski (Medicine): Dr. Cohen, would you tell us what happened with this patient?

Dr. Cohen: Anemia, thrombocytopenia, acute kidney injury, and disseminated intravascular coagulation developed in the patient. His mental status deteriorated, and despite the weaning of sedation, he did not respond to pain and had no meaningful interactions. The patient's wife and daughter, who were present at his bedside, recalled multiple previous conversations about his end-of-life preferences in view of his active lifestyle. In accordance with his wishes, comfort measures were instituted, and the patient died within 1 minute after palliative extubation. An autopsy was performed.