## Nonbacterial Thrombotic Endocarditis

Could nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis have caused systemic embolization in this patient? This immune-mediated phenomenon is characterized by the presence of sterile vegetations, composed of bland fibrin–platelet thrombi, that form on valvular leaflets. It typically occurs in patients with advanced cancer (known as marantic endocarditis) and in those with systemic lupus erythematosus (known as Libman–Sacks endocarditis). However, it may also complicate other chronic diseases, such as tuberculosis, uremia, and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis is considered to be an uncommon condition, and it is most often found post mortem, with rates in autopsy series ranging from 0.9 to 1.6%. Nearly 50% of postmortem cases are associated with adenocarcinoma of the lung or ovary, and an additional 25% are associated with hematologic cancer. However, the frequency of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis may be underestimated. In a study involving 200 patients with cancer who did not have clinical embolism or endocarditis, valvular vegetations were found in 19% of the patients as compared with only 2% of controls. The vegetations that result from nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis are typically friable and have a high propensity for embolization because of the minimal inflammatory reaction at the site of attachment. They are classically found along valvular coaptation lines (i.e., where the valve edges meet) and are not associated with destruction of valvular tissue. The vegetations are typically small (<1 cm in diameter), broad-based, and irregular in shape, and they are frequently located on the mitral and aortic valves; cases of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis involving valves on the right side of the heart are rare. Vegetations on the atrioventricular valves are commonly present on the atrial surface, whereas vegetations on the semilunar valves are usually found on the ventricular surface.

The most common initial manifestation of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis is an embolic event that results in neurologic symptoms. Although the incidence of systemic embolization in this condition is not well studied, it appears to range from 14 to 91%, with pulmonary embolism occurring in 50% of the cases, sometimes without the obvious presence of valvular lesions on the right side of the heart. Patients with nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis tend to have evidence of multiple, widely distributed brain infarcts on diffusion-weighted MRI, whereas single lesions or focal infarcts are more characteristic of infective endocarditis. Of note, primary cardiac valvular dysfunction is not a common initial manifestation of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis.

Given the marked discordance between the subtle valvular lesion and the widespread extent of systemic embolization, along with negative rheumatologic and infectious evaluations, I suspect that this patient most likely had nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis. Since most cases of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis are associated with cancer and this patient had an extensive history of tobacco smoking, I would consider the possibility of lung cancer as an underlying disease. To establish this diagnosis, I would recommend TEE to further assess the valvular abnormalities and would consider bronchoscopy to look for evidence of an underlying pulmonary lesion.

Dr. Tomas G. Neilan's Diagnosis: Nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis due to an underlying cancer.