## Pathological Discussion

Dr. Athena Chen: At autopsy, tannish-white nodules were apparent on the pleural surface of the left lung. Examination of sections of the lung tissue revealed an underlying firm-to-fleshy nodular mass that was centered in the parenchyma, a finding consistent with primary pulmonary carcinoma. Enlarged hilar lymph nodes were also identified (Fig. 4B). Microscopic examination revealed a poorly differentiated but focally gland-forming adenocarcinoma (Fig. 4C) with a population of pleomorphic giant cells; metastatic disease was identified in multiple hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that the tumor cells were positive for keratin 7, thyroid transcription factor 1, and napsin A (Fig. 4D, 4E, and 4F); these findings support the diagnosis of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of pulmonary origin.

The heart was mildly enlarged, weighed 530 g, and had multiple tannish-yellow granular, friable vegetations on the atrial surface of the mitral valve (Fig. 4G). On microscopic examination, the vegetations were composed of acellular fibrin, without associated inflammation, and were well demarcated from the mitral valve (Fig. 4H). In the context of negative cultures and special stains for organisms, this appearance is compatible with nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis. Thrombi were identified in the lungs, heart, spleen, kidneys, and brain, with subsequent infarction of those organs. In the kidneys, fibrin thrombi were present in glomerular capillary loops, a finding supportive of the clinical diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation.

Dr. Dudzinski: Dr. Gainor, if this patient had not had such quick deterioration, how would he have been treated?

Dr. Justin F. Gainor: In general, the management of non–small-cell lung cancer is based on tumor stage, cancer histology, and patient performance status. In this case, the patient was found to have adenocarcinoma of the lung that arose in the left lower lobe. This presentation was consistent with stage IV (T4N2M1a) non–small-cell lung cancer, according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer tumor–node–metastasis staging system. For patients with stage IV non–small-cell lung cancer and a favorable performance status, treatment typically consists of cytotoxic chemotherapy, targeted therapy, or immunotherapy, which is guided by the molecular profile of the given tumor. However, because this patient had a poor performance status and critical illness, treatment would have consisted of best supportive care.