Dr. Sarah E. Wakeman: When the patient presented to her primary care clinic for a follow-up visit, she described her history of opioid use and again requested injectable intramuscular naltrexone. In further discussion, it became clear that she preferred naltrexone because of the stigma related to buprenorphine, which she had heard from friends in recovery and observed in meetings of mutual-help organizations. Despite her initial preference for naltrexone, after she considered her unsuccessful previous attempts to use naltrexone and her successful experience with nonprescribed buprenorphine, she agreed to initiate buprenorphine treatment.

This patient's history of nonprescribed buprenorphine use is consistent with studies that have shown that the three most commonly reported reasons for use of diverted (nonprescribed) buprenorphine are to prevent withdrawal, to maintain abstinence, and to wean off opioids. In addition, the outcomes associated with prescribed buprenorphine treatment are better among those who report a history of nonprescribed buprenorphine use than among those who have never taken buprenorphine. This patient was given instructions to start buprenorphine treatment at home, and close follow-up was arranged. Unobserved initiation of buprenorphine treatment, also called home induction, has been shown to be noninferior to in-office induction and offers more flexibility for patients and providers. At the patient's next visit, she was connected to a recovery coach, who offered ongoing peer support. Although there is limited research regarding the effectiveness of recovery coaches in primary care, a qualitative study showed that patients with substance use disorder perceive the coach to play an important role.

Because the patient had ongoing concerns about her ability to continue treatment with buprenorphine, she was initially hesitant to take doses of buprenorphine and naloxone of more than 8 mg and 2 mg, respectively. After initiation of treatment, her toxicology screenings were consistently negative for opioids but she continued to use cocaine intermittently. Eight months after initiation of treatment, she agreed to try increasing her doses of buprenorphine and naloxone to 12 mg and 3 mg, respectively, and her subsequent toxicology screens were negative for cocaine and all opioids. She is now in full, sustained remission. She is working full-time and parenting, and she continues to engage regularly with her medical team and recovery coach.

A Physician: Would you comment on how you determine when to involve child protective services in situations in which a parent has substance use disorder?

Dr. Wakeman: In Massachusetts, the criterion for mandatory reporting by a health care provider is having reasonable cause to believe that a child younger than 18 years of age is suffering from abuse or neglect. I apply this standard to my patients regardless of whether they have a substance use disorder. The parent's use of substances does not necessarily mean that the child is suffering from abuse or neglect. If I become aware of a circumstance in which a child is suffering from abuse or neglect, then I will report my concern. If I think that it is necessary to report, I disclose to my patients that I am reporting and why, so that they are aware, although this is not required in Massachusetts.

A Physician: At what point do you consider tapering treatment for opioid use disorder?

Dr. Wakeman: The decision to taper treatment should be initiated by the patient and should be based on the clinical scenario. Tapering therapy at less than 1 year typically results in recurrence of active opioid use. One of the longest observational studies of buprenorphine for the treatment of prescription-opioid use disorder, in which patients were followed for up to 42 months, showed that, although many patients elected to taper off buprenorphine during the follow-up period, the strongest predictor of abstinence at 42 months was continued buprenorphine treatment. Long-term treatment with buprenorphine has powerful benefits. However, if a patient feels strongly about trying to taper treatment and has had a stable condition for years, I suggest beginning a slow taper. If cravings develop, the dose should be increased again. I emphasize to patients that the goal is not to be off the medication but to have what they need to stay alive and healthy.