Dr. George Eng: In this patient, liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry of oral fluid was positive for oxycodone, buprenorphine, benzoylecgonine, and cocaine. Urine is a more commonly tested specimen type than oral fluid, since it can easily be obtained noninvasively, with the additional benefit that drugs of interest or their metabolites are often concentrated in it. However, urine testing for drugs of abuse is potentially complicated by deliberate manipulation of the specimen; adulteration, substitution, and dilution can all affect drug detection. Although an abnormal creatinine level, pH, or osmolality can suggest specimen manipulation, these measures are not entirely sensitive or specific. In addition, enzyme immunoassays of urine specimens are associated with substantial rates of false positive results. The nonspecificity of enzyme immunoassays can lead to interpretive difficulties when there is a need to distinguish between an opiate-containing treatment regimen and illicit opioid use. Thus, many laboratories use a two-step testing algorithm that consists of initial screening with enzyme immunoassays followed by confirmation with liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry.

The use of oral fluid for drug testing is also a noninvasive technique and may mitigate the potential for specimen manipulation, since collection of the specimen is observed directly. Testing of oral fluid may be particularly useful in clinical practices in which the prevalence of specimen adulteration is high. Such testing requires a higher degree of technical sophistication, may result in a longer turnaround time, and may not be widely available in local practice settings, but it is offered at reference laboratories.

In this patient, the results of oral-fluid testing confirmed her report of oxycodone use and further revealed evidence of nonprescribed buprenorphine use. In addition, there was evidence of recent cocaine use, including detection of the parent molecule cocaine and the metabolite benzoylecgonine. There was no detection of 6-monoacetylmorphine, a unique metabolite of heroin, or fentanyl, a common heroin adulterant; together, these findings suggest that she was not using heroin.
